theodor schwann theodor schwann taught by johannes peter muller theodor schwann anticipated by lorenz oken his work related to that of schwann. theodor schwann work developed by robert remak inn 1829 schwann  enrolled at bonn university, where the great physiologist muller was one of his tutors. theodore schwann matthias jakob schleiden a pal of theodor schwann lorenz oken anticipated work of theodor schwann at the same time, schwann was studying the digestive organs and processes. jan evangelista purkinje work related to theodor schwann christian gottfried ehrenberg rejected theory of theodor schwann robert remak corrected view of theodor schwann robert brown work related to theodor schwann muller had also moved to berlin and from 1834-39 schwann worked in muller's laboratory and contributed to his major work on physiology. his last physiology works, on the biliary fistula, were in 1844 and '45. in 1848 he moved to the industrial region of lieges in belgium, encouraged by the promise of a large increase of salary and the establishment of an institute of anatomy. neither of these transpired and schwann's focus shifted to religious meditation and invention. schleiden studied in the laboratory of the distinguished physiologist muller and became friendly with schwann, another of muller's assistants. schwann was also investigating the processes of fermentation and putrefaction. at berlin, his teachers included schwann and schleiden. in 1838 schlieden, a friend of schwann's, advanced a cell theory for plants. people.person.education people.person.education people.person.education people.person.education education.academic.advisees education.academic.advisees education.academic.advisees education.academic.advisees education.academic.advisees common.topic.subjects people.person.places_lived education.academic.advisors education.academic.advisors education.education.student education.education.student education.education.student education.education.student medicine.disease_cause.diseases film.film.featured_film_locations film.film.featured_film_locations