to confront this problem, bohr began with the question of atomic spectra. niels bohr and the development of physics bohr began to develop a model of the atom in which electrons were disposed in rings around the nucleus -- a first step towards an explanation of atomic structure. during the 30s, bohr turned to a new, but related, topic: the composition of the atomic nucleus. during the 1920s and 1930s, bohr wrote extensively about atomic structures, proposing two concepts that he considered fundamental to the \"new physics\". heisenberg began investigating the refinement of the model of the atom, developed in 1913 by bohr. he helped revolutionize the knowledge of atomic structure by his discovery of the electron (1897). niels henrik david bohr encouraged by ernest rutherford at bohr's lectures pauli began to consider some of the fundamental problems involved in bohr's quantum theory of the atom (such as the existence of various electron energy levels within an atom) and decided that classical physics could not explain why electrons were distributed in various energy levels outside the nucleus, each energy level containing a set number of electrons. the most important aspect of the bohr liquid-drop model was its later ability to explain the process of nuclear fission (the splitting of a heavy nucleus into two parts, almost equal in mass, following the absorption of a neutron, with the release of a tremendous amount of nuclear energy), discovered in 1938 by otto hahn,  fritz strassmann and lise meitner. niels henrik david bohr his work developed by werner karl heisenberg a photo of niels bohr his quantum mechanical model of the atom was the key step in scientific understanding of atomic structure. werner karl heisenberg developed work by niels henrik david bohr niels bohr atomic physics and human knowledge julius robert oppenheimer met niels henrik david bohr niels henrik david bohr opposed by albert einstein bohr's concept (what is now called the old quantum theory) had been based on the classical idea of electrons in well-defined orbits around the nucleus. niels henrik david bohr work related to enrico fermi chemistry.chemical_element.isotopes chemistry.chemical_element.isotopes chemistry.chemical_element.isotopes chemistry.chemical_element.isotopes chemistry.chemical_element.isotopes chemistry.chemical_element.isotopes chemistry.chemical_element.isotopes chemistry.chemical_element.isotopes chemistry.chemical_element.isotopes chemistry.chemical_element.isotopes chemistry.chemical_element.isotopes chemistry.chemical_element.isotopes chemistry.chemical_element.isotopes chemistry.chemical_element.isotopes chemistry.chemical_element.isotopes chemistry.chemical_element.isotopes chemistry.chemical_element.atomic_mass chemistry.chemical_element.discovering_country astronomy.astronomical_observatory.discoveries chemistry.chemical_element.periodic_table_block