theodor schwann theodor schwann taught by johannes peter muller his work related to that of schwann. inn 1829 schwann  enrolled at bonn university, where the great physiologist muller was one of his tutors. matthias jakob schleiden a pal of theodor schwann theodor schwann anticipated by lorenz oken theodor schwann work developed by robert remak at berlin, his teachers included schwann and schleiden. theodore schwann jan evangelista purkinje work related to theodor schwann lorenz oken anticipated work of theodor schwann his last physiology works, on the biliary fistula, were in 1844 and '45. in 1848 he moved to the industrial region of lieges in belgium, encouraged by the promise of a large increase of salary and the establishment of an institute of anatomy. neither of these transpired and schwann's focus shifted to religious meditation and invention. robert remak corrected view of theodor schwann robert brown work related to theodor schwann christian gottfried ehrenberg rejected theory of theodor schwann at the same time, schwann was studying the digestive organs and processes. muller had also moved to berlin and from 1834-39 schwann worked in muller's laboratory and contributed to his major work on physiology. emil du bois-reymond taught by theodor schwann in 1831 schwann moved to wurzburg where he studied underschonlein before completing his studies at berlin. in 1838 schlieden, a friend of schwann's, advanced a cell theory for plants. people.person.education people.person.education people.person.education people.person.education education.academic.advisees education.academic.advisees education.academic.advisees education.academic.advisees education.academic.advisees education.education.student education.education.student education.education.student education.education.student education.academic.advisors education.academic.advisors education.education.institution education.education.institution education.education.institution education.education.institution education.educational_institution.campuses