camera obscura invention credited to leonardo da vinci da vinci spent every spare moment in the pursuit of science. he employed da vinci. having always had a huge interest in mechanics, architecture, science, and the \"science\" of art, da vinci began to make drawings and notes that he would use in treatises on painting, architecture, mechanics and anatomy. da vinci - the genius although its invention has been credited variously to roger bacon, alberti, da vinci and della porta, it was in fact described by the 10th-century islamic scholar al hazen. in 1482, da vinci joined the court of ludovico sforza, duke of milan, where he was employed as painter, sculptor, designer, technical consultant for architectural and military matters, and hydraulic and mechanical engineer. toward the end of the 15th century, now in his late 40's, da vinci published a book on the theory of mechanics with precise drawings of the elements of mechanics, such as screws, jacks and gears. da vinci was apprenticed to verrocchio in florence under whom he worked until 1477, when he was 25. leonardo da vinci and the art of sculpture: inspiration and invention in 1506, da vinci was called to milan by the french governor. anatomist vesalius and philosophers francis bacon, hobbes and descartes were all inspired by da vinci's work. he was involved with a project by da vinci. exceptionally inventive and versatile, da vinci designed mobile bridges, mortars, other items of artillery, naval weapons, and armored fighting vehicles. in 1502, da vinci entered the employ of borgia, the illegitimate son of  pope alexander vi. hearing of the reputation of  da vinci and michelangelo , he arrived in florence and began to study not only their works, but also 'the old things of mascaccio'. commissioned work by da vinci. after the french were expelled from milan in 1513, giuliano de' medici, brother of pope leo x, invited da vinci to rome, housed him at the vatican, gave him a substantial salary, but, to da vinci's intense disappointment, gave him nothing to do. although da vinci worked 12 years on sculpting a 16-foot equestrian statue in honor of francesco sforza, it was never completed. hired as engineer and architect in charge of fortification, da vinci traveled with borgia on his campaigns, surveying the vanquished italian territories. law.inventor.inventions law.inventor.inventions law.inventor.inventions law.inventor.inventions law.inventor.inventions law.inventor.inventions law.inventor.inventions law.inventor.inventions law.inventor.inventions law.inventor.inventions law.inventor.inventions law.invention.inventor law.invention.inventor law.invention.inventor law.invention.inventor law.invention.inventor law.invention.inventor law.invention.inventor law.invention.inventor law.invention.inventor