supported by the current leader of the hungarian independence movement, count louis batthyanyi, kossuth became the member for budapest in the next diet, in which he led the \"national opposition\" group, composed of radicals and extreme liberals. in the summer of 1852, kossuth settled as an exile in london, where he remained for the next seven years, working for the hungarian cause and corresponding with  revolutionaries all over europe. lujza kossuth photo of lajos kossuth kossuth-photo lajos kossuth in 1824, having moved to pest, kossuth was appointed deputy at the national diet (parliament) in pozsony, pressburg (now bratislava) of which he was a member from 1825 to 1827, and then again from 1832 to 1836. bela bartok wrote work about lajos kossuth the austrian chancellor metternich finally agreed,  and kossuth became a popular hero following his release in 1840. in february 1848 news of the revolution in paris encouraged kossuth. the diet made kossuth \"governor\" of hungary but, after an invasion (in support of the austrians) by the russian army, he recognized the hopelessness of his position and resigned in favor of  gorgei on 11th august 1849. kossuth, bitterly disappointed, moved to turin in 1860, where he was forced to see hungary, led by the moderate statesman francis deak, move towards reconciliation with the austrian monarchy. kossuth hã­d budapest in spite of an offer of amnesty,  kossuth refused to take his seat at the diet of 1867. kossuth vilma released kossuth from gaol. kossuth tér batthyanyi stood down and kossuth became head of the committee of national defense, taking charge of the war effort. this was the beginning of kossuth's leadership of the hungarian revolution. in london in 1854, met hungarian nationalist kossuth. media_common.quotation.author base.kwebbase.kwsentence.next_sentence base.kwebbase.kwsentence.next_sentence base.kwebbase.kwsentence.next_sentence base.kwebbase.kwsentence.next_sentence base.kwebbase.kwsentence.next_sentence base.kwebbase.kwsentence.next_sentence base.kwebbase.kwsentence.next_sentence base.kwebbase.kwsentence.next_sentence base.kwebbase.kwsentence.next_sentence base.kwebbase.kwsentence.next_sentence base.kwebbase.kwsentence.next_sentence base.kwebbase.kwsentence.next_sentence base.kwebbase.kwsentence.next_sentence base.kwebbase.kwsentence.next_sentence base.kwebbase.kwsentence.next_sentence base.kwebbase.kwsentence.next_sentence base.kwebbase.kwsentence.next_sentence base.kwebbase.kwsentence.next_sentence base.kwebbase.kwsentence.next_sentence