flemish people flemish language life and death in flanders new flemish alliance it is possible, though unproven, that he also trained with gillis van coninxloo, a flemish landscape painter who was working in frankenthal around 1585. brueghel's still-lifes were full of rich objects, but painted with delicacy. by 1606, he was working for the hapsburg governors of the netherlands and liaising with the court in brussels. in 1601, he became a citizen of antwerp, and, in the same year, his son, jan, who also became a painter known as jan breughel the younger, was born. brueghel painted in a way that was faithful to nature and profoundly influenced the development of still life and landscape painting in the netherlands through the 17th century. back in antwerp, brueghel joined the guild of painters in 1597. when borromeo became archbishop of milan, brueghel stayed in his household for several months in 1596. he travelled frequently, to germany and to prague. while in rome, brueghel acquired a patron, cardinal federigo borromeo, whom he told in letters that the artists he had been impressed by in italy were the venetians and hans rottenhammer, a northern painter. dutch victory over spain in the battle of gibraltar brueghel's father,peter breugel the elder, famous as an artist in his lifetime, died a year after jan was born and he was brought up by his maternal grandmother, from whom he may have learned tempera painting. brueghel's work, however, was lighter in spirit. belgian french french genesis translation the roman empire and its germanic peoples middlemarch: a study of provincial life people.person.places_lived people.person.places_lived people.person.places_lived people.person.places_lived people.person.places_lived people.person.places_lived people.person.places_lived people.person.places_lived people.person.places_lived people.person.places_lived people.place_lived.location people.place_lived.location people.place_lived.location people.place_lived.location people.place_lived.location people.place_lived.location people.place_lived.person people.place_lived.person people.place_lived.person people.place_lived.person