chadwick james chadwick he deduced that each contained a positively charged nucleus surrounded by electrons: only that kind of nucleus could repulse the positively charged alpha particles that happened to strike them and produce such enormous deflections. to demonstrate that the deflection was not caused merely by some surface effect, geiger and his associates also used metal reflectors of different thicknesses. geiger and rutherford also established the basic unit of electrical charge when it was involved in electrical activity, which was equivalent to that carried by a single hydrogen atom. geiger's work with rutherford and another young physicist, ernest marsden, brought rutherford finally to the conclusion, in 1911, that the atoms contained a positively charged core or nucleus which repelled the alpha particles, the observed deflection of the alpha particles being due to the positively charged particle being repelled by the positively charged nuclei in the metal. in 1906 geiger accepted the post of assistant to arthur schuster, an expert on gas ionization and head of the physics department at the university of manchester. in 1906, he accepted the chair of professor of physics at manchester university in england, where he built up a renowned laboratory and a group of talented associates including geiger,  and physicist bohr. throughout the 30s, rutherford maintained close contact with leading world scientists, in particular,  physicists bohr,  planck, einstein and fermi. ernest rutherford corresponded with max planck under rutherford's direction, english physicist patrick blackett in 1925 used the cloud chamber  apparatus, developed by scottish physicist c.t.r. wilson, to record the tracks of disintegrated nuclei. from this research, rutherford and soddy in 1903 were able to put together the modern understanding of radioactivity. this was a decay product of thorium, and rutherford also observed that the radioactivity of \"emanation\" gradually decreased geometrically with time, an occurrence now known as the half-life of a radioactive substance -- the measurement of the time it takes for half of a substance to decay. rutherford returned to full research in 1919, when he made his last great discovery. under rutherford, geiger began studying alpha particles, finding that two alpha particles appeared to be released when uranium disintegrated. in 1900 rutherford and his associate soddy isolated the active part of radioactive thorium, which they named thorium-x, from the apparently-inert parent thorium. rutherford's next major discovery came in 1909. in 1897 rutherford took up the study of radioactivity, discovered in 1896 by french physicist becquerel. at his suggestion, the name \"proton\"  was given to the hydrogen nucleus in 1920. during the first world war, rutherford, serving in the british navy's board of invention and research, worked on methods of detecting german u-boats (submarines) by underwater acoustics. common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for base.jewlib.parent_institution.judaica_owning_units symbols.namesake.named_after symbols.namesake.named_after symbols.namesake.named_after symbols.namesake.named_after symbols.namesake.named_after symbols.namesake.named_after