between 1665 and 1667, newton made revolutionary advances in optics, physics, and astronomy, and laid the foundations for differential and integral calculus, several years before leibniz's  discoveries. by their application, newton formulated the universal laws of nature with which he was able to solve virtually all the unsolved problems of his day. he knew newton. during his third year at cambridge, newton went beyond the compulsory study of aristotle and read the works of descartes , gassendi , hobbes , and 17th-century chemist boyle . he was convinced it was because of their personal liberty that the english, notably newton (whose funeral he attended in westminster abbey in 1727) and locke, were in the forefront of scientific thought, and was equally impressed by the works of shakespeare, milton and dryden. in 1669, barrow decided the world must know about newton's mathematical achievements and sent newton's preliminary work, \"on analysis by infinite series,\"  to john collins in london. it was acknowledged that though leibniz's discoveries were later in time, he preceded newton in publishing a full account. also at this time, newton began to think about gravity. a royal society panel, including halley and mathematician william jones ,  decided that newton was the first to unify and make explicit what had been latent in the work of various forerunners. an address on the genius and discoveries of sir isaac newton his new astronomy provided the basis for newton's work. a constant preoccupation for newton was the continuing fight with leibniz over who first invented calculus. both objected to newton's attempt to prove by experiment alone that light consisted of the motion of small particles. although bartholin himself was unable to explain double refraction, it was recognized as a serious contradiction to newton's optical theories, and proved to be of great theoretical interest to both christiaan huyghens (who in 1678, by studying the same variety of crystal, discovered the laws of double refraction) and newton. in this paper, newton demonstrated the existence of periodic optical phenomena: he had discovered concentric colored rings in the thin film of air between a lens and a flat sheet of glass and calculated that the distance between these concentric rings (\"newton's rings\") depended on the thickness of the film of air. this eventually led to newton's laws of gravity. on his release in 1686, he fled to england, where he made a modest living tutoring in mathematics, and continued to study recent mathematical texts, the most notable being newton's 'principia mathematica.' in 1692 he met the astronomer halley who was so impressed by him that he read his first paper (on newton's calculus), to the royal society in 1695. impressed with newton's work, halley gladly did as he was bid and newton's great work was published in 1687. newton knew or worked with tillotson, sprat, leeuwenhoek, grew, sloane and arbuthnot. in 1672, huyghens learned of newton's work on the telescope and on light. law.inventor.inventions law.inventor.inventions law.inventor.inventions law.inventor.inventions astronomy.astronomer.astronomical_objects_discovered astronomy.astronomical_discovery.discoverer law.invention.inventor law.invention.inventor astronomy.astronomical_discovery.discovery_site base.argumentmaps.innovator.original_ideas base.argumentmaps.innovator.original_ideas base.argumentmaps.innovator.original_ideas base.argumentmaps.innovator.original_ideas base.argumentmaps.innovator.original_ideas base.argumentmaps.innovator.original_ideas base.argumentmaps.innovator.original_ideas base.argumentmaps.innovator.original_ideas base.argumentmaps.original_idea.innovator base.argumentmaps.original_idea.innovator base.argumentmaps.original_idea.innovator