morse code in may 1838, morse sailed again for europe to register patents on his invention, but without success. morse felt that there must be some way to use electricity to send messages. 1922 chart of the morse code letters and numerals while he was in france, morse met the inventor of a new kind of photography, daguerre and in 1840 introduced the daguerrotype to the united states at a studio in new york. over the years, morse made hundreds of thousands of dollars in fees. unfortunately, morse was not aware of ohm's resistance work of 1827, so he didn't know why his signals didn't go further. morse gale was able to adapt morse's knowledge of  joseph henry's work on magnets to the problems of resistance on the telegraph. in february of the following year, morse and vail demonstrated the telegraph at the franklin institute, in philadelphia. morse retired to a quiet old age. day's lectures on electricity fascinated him and, after taking a battery apart in silliman's class, morse went on to construct some of his own. from the lectures of his friend, james freeman dana, morse also found out about sturgeon's new electromagnet. however the insulating pipes were defective so, as wheatstone had done, morse used overhead lines. in 1854, the american entrepreneur field wrote to morse, suggesting a transatlantic cable between ireland and newfoundland. in 1812 morse successfully exhibited 'the dying hercules' and 'the judgement of jupiter.' in 1818 after six years of study, he ran out of money and returned to america to live with his uncle finley, in charleston, sc, where he was given enough painting commissions to earn a living and  marry lucretia walker in september of that year. morse (with maury) advised on the project. in 1805, like his father, jedediah morse, samuel morse went to yale, where he was only interested in lectures given by jeremiah day and silliman snr. morse exhibition of arts and science although the institute were already aware of the german telegraph of gauss and we weber, as well as that of wheatstone in england, they gave a favourable report on morse's apparatus. symbols.name_source.namesakes symbols.name_source.namesakes symbols.name_source.namesakes symbols.name_source.namesakes law.inventor.inventions law.inventor.inventions symbols.namesake.named_after law.invention.inventor law.inventor.us_patents base.argumentmaps.innovator.original_ideas people.person.place_of_birth organization.organization_founder.organizations_founded organization.organization_founder.organizations_founded organization.organization.founders freebase.type_profile.published freebase.type_profile.published people.deceased_person.place_of_death people.deceased_person.cause_of_death base.skosbase.skos_concept.in_scheme base.skosbase.skos_concept.in_scheme