at rote schloss, the interest was in the new italian style of music which was then becoming the rage of europe, one of the chief exponents being the venetian composer vivaldi. classical guitar music of vivaldi répertoire des oeuvres instrumentales d'antonio vivaldi music minus one guitar: vivaldi, two concerti for guitar (lute) & orchestra: c major, rv425 (f. v/1); d major, rv93 (f. xii/15) vivaldi - sonata for cello and basso continuo in a minor, op. 14, no. 3, rv 43 antonio vivaldi et la musique instrumentale tome ii: inventaire thématique vivaldi's introduzioni during this period he wrote four overtures, the six french and six english suites, several concertos for one and two violins and more for various ensembles were written. vivaldi in venice catalogo numerico tematico delle composizioni di antonio vivaldi vivaldi antonio vivaldi - catalogo numerico-tematico delle opere strumentali francesco gaetano vivaldi antonio vivaldi bach and his cousin johann georg walther transcribed some of the italian instrumental concertos for keyboard instruments. at weimar he now came into contact with italian instrumental music and acted as deputy to the aging court organist, effler, an old friend of the bach family, thus having a chance to keep his organ playing in practice. antonio vivaldi - nisi dominus his music has been supreme for composers and music lovers alike throughout two and a half centuries. venice classic radio - beautiful classical music for the following easter, he produced a cantata, collected together an orchestra of strings, three trumpets and drums to support his choir and staggered the faithful of arnstadt with a brilliant performance. base.musiteca.composition.composer base.musiteca.composition.composer base.musiteca.composition.composer base.musiteca.composition.composer base.musiteca.composition.composer base.musiteca.composition.composer base.musiteca.composition.composer base.musiteca.composition.composer base.musiteca.composition.composer base.musiteca.type_instrument.compositions music.genre.subgenre music.genre.subgenre music.genre.subgenre music.genre.subgenre music.genre.subgenre music.genre.subgenre music.genre.subgenre music.genre.subgenre music.genre.subgenre music.genre.subgenre