gregor mendel gregor mendel work confirmed by hugo de vries gregor mendel work confirmed by erich von tschermak gregor mendel institute gregor mendel was the first to apply mathematical and scientific principles to the biological process of heredity, by tracking characteristics physically and statistically rather than by observing results and deducting the process by which the results were obtained. gregor mendel was ordained as an augustinian priest at st. thomas monastery in brÿnn on august 6, 1847, following his graduation from the brÿnn theological college. gregor mendel work confirmed by carl franz joseph-erich correns christian doppler taught gregor mendel naegli dismissed the genetic studies of gregor mendel as being of interest only as empirical observations, although he and mendel conducted an extensive correspondence. realizing that mendel was self-taught, one of his examiners recommended that he go to the university of vienna for additional study. charles robert darwin work related to gregor mendel mendel's abbot agreed, and mendel attended the university from 1851 to 1853, studying the natural sciences and mathematics. carl franz joseph-erich correns work related to gregor mendel hugo de vries work related to gregor mendel erich von tschermak anticipated by gregor mendel mendel returned to brunn in 1854. in 1900 three scientists independently and simultaneously re-discovered mendel's paper and confirmed his work: correns, de vries and tschermak. mendel presented his findings in two lectures for the society for the study of the natural sciences in brÿnn in 1865. in 1850 he was made director of the new physical institute for the training of teachers, and full professor of experimental physics at the royal imperial university of vienna, where he taught among others the austrian biologist and botanist mendel. anton mendel common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for