mary wollstonecraft shelley mother was mary wollstonecraft in august she gave birth to a daughter mary, who later became mary shelley. percy bysshe shelley mother-in-law was mary wollstonecraft mary shelley mary wollstonecraft shelley father was william godwin mary shelley was an intellectual and radical,  remembered as shelley's wife and as the author of \"frankenstein\". mary lived a rather restricted and lonely life, since her elopement with shelley had alienated her from most of society. mary wollstonecraft shelley married percy bysshe shelley he married again but fell out with his daughter mary shelley when she eloped with the young poet percy bysshe shelley. the letters of mary w. shelley in july 1814 mary and shelley eloped, accompanied by mary's step sister, claire clairmont. letters of mary w. shelley the journals of mary shelley, 1814-1844 her son now received an adequate allowance from the shelley estate and in 1840 mary accompanied him and his friends on a tour to germany, switzerland and italy. they began an intensive course of reading together, and shelley introduced mary to english and german literature, the french writers voltaire, rousseau and de stael,  as well as history,  politics and the ancient greek and roman writers. letters of mary w. shelley (mostly unpublished) novels and selected works of mary shelley at the end of the year shelley's first wife committed suicide and he and mary married. percy bysshe shelley father-in-law was william godwin the novels and selected works of mary shelley people.person.parents people.person.parents people.person.parents people.person.parents people.person.parents people.person.parents people.person.parents people.person.parents people.person.parents people.person.parents people.person.parents people.person.parents people.person.parents people.person.parents people.person.parents people.cause_of_death.parent_cause_of_death people.cause_of_death.parent_cause_of_death people.person.place_of_birth people.person.place_of_birth people.person.place_of_birth