james k. polk correspondence of james k. polk james k. polk presidential campaign, 1844 inaugural address of james k. polk james k. polk ancestral home james k. polk elementary school james k. polk 1845 presidential inauguration president james k. polk used the precedent set by this doctrine in 1845 when he declared that the united states should have full control of the oregon territory, and when warning european nations not to interfere in the disputes with mexico that resulted in the mexican war of 1846-1848. correspondence of james k. polk, vol. 10: july-december 1845 the diary of james k. polk during his presidency, 1845 to 1849, now first printed from the original manuscript in the collections of the chicago historical society john quincy adams work related to james knox polk like jackson, polk believed there was no need for a national bank. president james polk made pierce federal district attorney, after which he became prominent in local politics. james knox polk passed over for john quincy adams correspondence of james polk vol 10 cover james knox polk passed over amos kendall james knox polk appointed matthew calbraith perry in 1825 polk was elected to the u.s. house of representatives, where he continued his support of jackson, even though the house had passed him over as president in favor of john quincy adams . amos kendall turned down by james knox polk during the mexican war of 1846 to 1848, president james polk sent perry to the gulf of mexico and took command of the naval forces during the siege of veracruz. base.kwebbase.kwtopic.has_sentences base.kwebbase.kwtopic.has_sentences base.kwebbase.kwtopic.has_sentences base.kwebbase.kwtopic.has_sentences base.kwebbase.kwtopic.has_sentences base.kwebbase.kwtopic.has_sentences base.kwebbase.kwtopic.has_sentences base.kwebbase.kwtopic.has_sentences base.kwebbase.kwtopic.has_sentences base.kwebbase.kwtopic.has_sentences base.kwebbase.kwtopic.has_sentences base.kwebbase.kwtopic.has_sentences base.kwebbase.kwtopic.has_sentences base.kwebbase.kwtopic.has_sentences base.kwebbase.kwtopic.has_sentences base.kwebbase.kwtopic.has_sentences base.kwebbase.kwtopic.has_sentences base.kwebbase.kwtopic.has_sentences base.kwebbase.kwtopic.has_sentences base.kwebbase.kwtopic.has_sentences