kennedy was elected by a slender majority, and at 43 became the youngest president and the first catholic in the white house. john f. kennedy 1961 presidential inauguration in 1960, kennedy was nominated democratic presidential candidate and johnson surprised many supporters by agreeing to become kennedy's running mate. he was succeeded by president kennedy. kennedy's huge majority in the senate elections of 1958 made him a promising presidential contender, and in 1960 he defeated his chief rival for nomination, hubert humphrey. in his bid for the 1956 democratic vice-presidential nomination, kennedy gave speeches across the country, often taking his glamorous wife jacqueline with him. in 1946, kennedy was elected to congress as a democrat for the 11th congressional district of massachusetts. kennedy's record on civil rights was modest but in 1962 he enforced desegregation at the university of mississippi. when president kennedy became us president in 1961, harriman once again missed out on the job of secretary of state and was disappointed when the position went to  dean rusk,  a much younger man. in april 1961, kennedy gave his blessing to the disastrous bay of pigs invasion of cuba by cuban exiles trained in the u.s. during eisenhower's presidency. the real making of the president : kennedy, nixon, and the 1960 election ( in november, 1963, just before kennedy was assassinated, president diem was captured and killed and the area became more unstable.) in vienna, in june, 1961, kennedy had an unproductive meeting with soviet prime minister krushchev. on november 22, 1963, kennedy was assassinated as he and his wife drove through dallas, texas. john f. kennedy 1960 presidential campaign kennedy-shriver conversation on the peace corps : april 2, 1963 a meeting with president kennedy in vienna in 1961 resolved nothing and soon after kennedy's visit to berlin, the berlin wall went up. in april, 1961, president kennedy authorized the invasion of cuba by exiled cubans, but when the invaders landed at the bay of pigs they were routed. in 1962, he attended  a dinner party at the white house hosted by president kennedy and, later in the year, after an absence of nearly 50 years, returned to russia, where he was received by soviet leader krushchev. 50th anniversary of the assassination of john f. kennedy base.inaugurations.inauguration.president government.us_vice_president.to_president government.us_vice_president.to_president government.us_president.vice_president government.us_president.vice_president base.inaugurations.inauguration_speaker.inauguration base.kwebbase.kwsentence.dates base.kwebbase.kwsentence.dates base.kwebbase.kwsentence.dates base.kwebbase.kwsentence.dates base.kwebbase.kwsentence.dates base.kwebbase.kwsentence.dates base.kwebbase.kwsentence.dates base.kwebbase.kwsentence.dates base.kwebbase.kwsentence.dates base.kwebbase.kwsentence.dates base.kwebbase.kwsentence.dates base.kwebbase.kwsentence.dates base.kwebbase.kwsentence.dates base.kwebbase.kwsentence.dates