in his bid for the 1956 democratic vice-presidential nomination, kennedy gave speeches across the country, often taking his glamorous wife jacqueline with him. kennedy was elected by a slender majority, and at 43 became the youngest president and the first catholic in the white house. he was succeeded by president kennedy. in vienna, in june, 1961, kennedy had an unproductive meeting with soviet prime minister krushchev. on november 22, 1963, kennedy was assassinated as he and his wife drove through dallas, texas. he was hostile to president kennedy. in 1960, kennedy was nominated democratic presidential candidate and johnson surprised many supporters by agreeing to become kennedy's running mate. in a televised debate with nixon, kennedy's charm and charisma made him an easy winner. in 1962, he attended  a dinner party at the white house hosted by president kennedy and, later in the year, after an absence of nearly 50 years, returned to russia, where he was received by soviet leader krushchev. kennedy's huge majority in the senate elections of 1958 made him a promising presidential contender, and in 1960 he defeated his chief rival for nomination, hubert humphrey. kennedy's record on civil rights was modest but in 1962 he enforced desegregation at the university of mississippi. john f. kennedy 1960 presidential campaign john f. kennedy 1961 presidential inauguration president kennedy and the press he spent his last years as an honoured citizen and was invited to read a poem at the inauguration of president kennedy. a meeting with president kennedy in vienna in 1961 resolved nothing and soon after kennedy's visit to berlin, the berlin wall went up. when president kennedy became us president in 1961, harriman once again missed out on the job of secretary of state and was disappointed when the position went to  dean rusk,  a much younger man. in 1946, kennedy was elected to congress as a democrat for the 11th congressional district of massachusetts. kennedy advocated america's entry into the war and volunteered for military service. joseph p. kennedy, jr. people.marriage.type_of_union people.marriage.type_of_union people.marriage.type_of_union people.marriage.type_of_union people.marriage.type_of_union people.marriage.spouse people.marriage.spouse people.marriage.spouse people.marriage.spouse people.marriage.spouse people.marriage.spouse people.marriage.spouse people.marriage.spouse people.marriage.spouse people.marriage.location_of_ceremony people.person.spouse_s people.person.spouse_s people.person.spouse_s people.person.spouse_s people.person.spouse_s