adolf hitler was born in 1889 at braunau am inn, austria, the son of a 52- year-old habsburg customs official, alois schickelgruber hitler, and his third wife, a young peasant girl named klara poelzl. hitler attended a primary school in braunau for five years, and then moved with his family to linz, the capital of upper austria, on his father's retirement in 1897. after two idle years in linz, in october 1907 hitler left his mother (who was incurably ill with cancer) and moved to vienna, where he remained until 1913 leading a bohemian existence, making a precarious living selling paintings and drawings of vienna and producing posters and advertisements for small traders. during the years 1930-33 hitler's impassioned promises attracted members of all social groups in germany, including industrial magnates, high-ranking army officials, prominent intellectuals (including the philosopher heidegger and, until 1934, the cultural historian spengler) and the wealthy members of the 'landbund', or league of land, who opposed the redistribution of land proposed by the weimar republic. hitler family hitler failed to succeed in his studies and left school in 1905 to become a painter. hitler, 1889-1936 : hubris hitler, 1889-1936: hubris on leaving hospital, hitler returned to munich, where he worked for the army as a political agent, spying on extremist groups like the nationalist and racist german workers' party (dap), which hitler joined in september 1919. explaining hitler : the search for the origins of his evil explaining hitler: the search for the origins of his evil on 29 april, having finally accepted the inevitability of defeat, hitler married his long-term mistress eva braun and dictated his final political testament, appointed admiral donitz as head of state and goebbels as chancellor, and concluded, \"above all, i charge the leaders of the nation and those under them to scrupulous observance of the laws of race and to merciless opposition to the universal poisoner of all peoples, international jewry.\" the following day, hitler committed suicide with his wife and, in accordance with his instructions, their bodies were carried into the garden of the reich chancellery by aides, covered with petrol and burned (as documented by, for example, trevor-roper's^:  'the last days of hitler', 1947). at the same time, hitler gathered around him several of nazi leaders who later became infamous,  including rudolf hess (who introduced him to haushofer's expansionist theory of \"lebensraum\"). he soon became an early supporter of hitler (whom he met in 1926). alois hitler, jr. the testament of adolf hitler; the hitler-bormann documents, february-april 1945 from these and other sources, the young hitler began to construct a vision of the world in which jews (by race, rather than by religion) became the symbol and cause of all chaos, corruption, and destruction in culture, politics and the economy, and that the press, prostitution, syphilis, capitalism, marxism, democracy and pacificism were all means exploited by 'the jew' in his conspiracy to undermine the german nation and the purity of the creative aryan race. in 1921 he was appointed professor of geography at the university of munich, and in the same year he first met hitler and began to influence on nazi party thinking, in particular through his pupil, the young rudolf hess. english writers h.g. wells and shaw were impressed, as was hitler. hitler and his generals: military conferences 1942-1945 people.person.parents people.person.parents people.person.parents people.person.parents people.person.parents people.person.parents people.person.parents people.person.parents people.person.parents people.person.parents people.person.parents people.person.parents people.person.parents people.person.parents people.person.parents people.person.parents people.person.parents people.person.parents people.person.parents people.person.parents