betty white the betty white show happy birthday, betty white! betty white: another reason to celebrate the glorious golden girl betty white (1989 cropped) sandra bullock to present sag lifetime achievement award to betty white betty white's tv land pilot: the closest we'll get to a new 'golden girls'! 'santa' betty white tells craig ferguson exactly where he can stuff a few dollars this christmas clip du jour: ryan reynolds vs. betty white did you just gesture at me when you said 'ugly betty' vodcast? betty white's off their rockers betty '30 rock' dream guest star: paul mccartney or rob pattinson? “sociologically, politically, psychologically, spiritually, it was never enough for him [james baldwin] to categorize himself as one thing or the other: not just black, not just sexual, not just american, nor even just as a world-class literary artist. he embraced the whole of life the way the sun’s gravitational passion embraces everything from the smallest wandering comet to the largest looming planet. he both confronted and cultivated creative vision with a drive, passion, and brilliance that few have matched, and simply being able to watch his genius sparkle from one sentence to the next could generate both awe and revelation.” tess curtis white bea arthur: 'golden girls' memories estelle getty “aberjhani's voice should be heard around the world. he is an extraordinarily gifted writer whose words are more than inspirational, intriguing, and eloquent ... they are poetry in motion.” events, books highlight flannery o'connor legacy (part 2) her life and times people's choice award for favorite tv guest star people.marriage.type_of_union people.marriage.type_of_union people.marriage.type_of_union people.marriage.type_of_union people.marriage.spouse people.marriage.spouse people.marriage.spouse people.marriage.spouse people.marriage.spouse people.marriage.spouse people.marriage.spouse people.marriage.spouse people.person.spouse_s people.person.spouse_s people.person.spouse_s people.person.spouse_s people.person.spouse_s people.person.spouse_s people.person.spouse_s people.person.spouse_s