from 1585 to 1589 galileo gave lessons in mathematics in florence and siena, and in 1586 he published an essay (describing his invention of a hydrostatic balance) which made him known throughout italy, and won him the support of a wealthy patron, the marchese del monte, for whom he wrote a treatise on the centre of gravity in solids (1588) and who got him the job of lecturer in mathematics at the university of pisa. galileo galilei biography written by david brewster alcuni scritti inediti di galileo galilei galileo galilei galileo galilei warned by robert bellarmine galileo galilei work followed up by giovanni alfonso borelli once he was totally blind (1638), galileo was permitted to have his two friends, the geometrician viviani and torricelli, to live with him, to whom he was dictating his latest ideas on the theory of impact when he was seized with the slow fever that resulted in his death. he always referred to himself afterwards as \"galileo's last pupil\". viviani revered galileo and after his death in 1642  he hoped to edit and publish an account of his life and works and to develop the new ideas about mathematics galileo's work had stimulated. early in 1611 galileo travelled to rome, where he spent several months demonstrating his discoveries,  and winning the approval of the jesuits of the roman college, the pope and several cardinals. galileo galilei knew of execution of giordano bruno galileo spent the next seven years (1616-23) in retirement at his house in bellosguardo near florence, in 1618-23 becoming involved in a dispute with orazio grassi over the nature of comets, which ended with the publication of his famous work, 'il saggiatore' ('the assayer'), a brilliant piece on physical reality,  and an exposition of the new scientific method which included his famous pronouncement that the \"book of nature is... written in mathematical characters\". galileo galilei inspired evangelista torricelli galileo galilei written about by giovanni battista venturi galileo galilei corresponded with johannes kepler in pisa, galileo began a controversial campaign to discredit accepted aristotelian physics. galileo then returned to florence and spent the next several years working on his great book, 'dialogo sopra i due massimi sistemi del mondo, tolemaico e copernicano' ('dialogue concerning the two chief world systems - ptolemaic and copernican'), which he completed in 1630 and was permitted to publish in 1632. he went to live in galileo's house, along with ^worked with^ viviani^, and stayed there until galileo's death on 8th january 1642. galileo named them the medicean stars in honor of his former pupil and future employer,  cosimo ii de' medici, grand duke of tuscany. galileo galilei copied telescope by hans lippershey common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for