douglas engelbart douglas engelbart in 2008 norman engelbart ballard engelbart gerda engelbart diana engelbart produced in 1931, the analyzer enjoyed tremendous success, first in electrical engineering, then in acoustics, atomic physics, geophysics, and quantum mechanics:  fields where progress had been slowed by difficult mathematical calculations. christina engelbart he turned his hand to developing mechanical analysis machines to help engineers in applied mathematics, and by 1931, he and his students at mit had developed the mechanical forerunner of the computer:  the differential analyzer. after 1935, with the help of the carnegie institution of washington and the rockefeller foundation, he built the larger, faster, more flexible machine (completely electrical, except for the integrators) known as the 'rockefeller differential analyser, and established mit's center of analysis. in 1916 he began a second career as a technical consultant to the newly-established american research and development corporation (amrad), which was seeking promising radio inventions. laser man: theodore h. maiman and his brilliant invention bush continued his research, and in 1945 cemented his reputation as one of the founding fathers of the computer age in his essay: \"as we may think\" in \"atlantic monthly\". bush was horrified by the security investigations of the 1950s  and in 1954, came to the defense of eminent nuclear scientist oppenheimer, who also had opposed developing a hydrogen bomb. under bush's guidance,  from 1942 to 1947 the osrd oversaw the development of microwave radars, antisubmarine devices, amphibious warfare, and the early stages of the atomic bomb. bush had advocated the use of the atomic bomb against japan, but deplored the development of the hydrogen bomb, prophetically predicting it would lead to a vicious arms race. he expressed his concern that scientific knowledge was growing so rapidly that  scientists were finding it increasingly difficult to learn about developments. though quickly superseded after the war by a new generation of electronic digital computers, the analyzer clearly revealed the possibilities of machine computation. the differential analyzer, which during the second world war was used to solve equations essential to ballistics, acoustics, structures, and atomic physics, was an invaluable contribution to the field of engineering. as a result, in 1940, roosevelt established the national defense research committee (ndrc), a civilian organization of scientists and engineers directed to develop new weapons for the military, and appointed bush its chairman. law.inventor.inventions law.inventor.inventions law.invention.inventor base.argumentmaps.original_idea.innovator law.us_patent.inventor base.argumentmaps.innovator.original_ideas law.inventor.us_patents base.argumentmaps.original_idea.discovered_during_event base.argumentmaps.discovery.original_idea base.nobelprizes.nobel_subject_area.nobel_awards base.nobelprizes.nobel_honor.subject_area organization.organization_founder.organizations_founded organization.organization_founder.organizations_founded organization.organization_founder.organizations_founded organization.organization_founder.organizations_founded organization.organization_founder.organizations_founded organization.organization_founder.organizations_founded organization.organization_founder.organizations_founded organization.organization_founder.organizations_founded organization.organization_founder.organizations_founded