james k. polk presidential campaign, 1844 james k. polk james k. polk 1845 presidential inauguration correspondence of james k. polk president james polk made pierce federal district attorney, after which he became prominent in local politics. inaugural address of james k. polk james k. polk ancestral home the diary of james k. polk during his presidency, 1845 to 1849, now first printed from the original manuscript in the collections of the chicago historical society four years later, when jackson became president, polk worked tirelessly on jackson's program. james k. polk elementary school polk: the man who transformed the presidency and america polk : the man who transformed the presidency and america during the mexican war of 1846 to 1848, president james polk sent perry to the gulf of mexico and took command of the naval forces during the siege of veracruz. in 1825 polk was elected to the u.s. house of representatives, where he continued his support of jackson, even though the house had passed him over as president in favor of john quincy adams . president james k. polk used the precedent set by this doctrine in 1845 when he declared that the united states should have full control of the oregon territory, and when warning european nations not to interfere in the disputes with mexico that resulted in the mexican war of 1846-1848. correspondence of james k. polk, vol. 10: july-december 1845 in 1844, he was considered a shoo-in for the democratic vice-presidency, but when van buren antagonized his followers by opposing the annexation of the independent republic of texas, polk was made presidential nominee, and was elected -- though as a minority president, with less than half the popular vote. james knox polk passed over for john quincy adams john quincy adams work related to james knox polk james knox polk appointed matthew calbraith perry government.us_president.vice_president government.us_president.vice_president government.us_president.vice_president government.us_president.vice_president government.us_vice_president.to_president government.us_vice_president.to_president government.us_vice_president.to_president government.us_vice_president.to_president base.inaugurations.inauguration.president base.kwebbase.kwconnection.subject base.kwebbase.kwconnection.subject base.kwebbase.kwconnection.subject base.kwebbase.kwconnection.subject base.kwebbase.kwconnection.subject base.kwebbase.kwconnection.subject base.kwebbase.kwconnection.subject base.kwebbase.kwconnection.subject base.kwebbase.kwconnection.subject base.kwebbase.kwconnection.subject base.kwebbase.kwconnection.subject