inaugural address of john f. kennedy the inaugural address john f. kennedy 1961 presidential inauguration in vienna, in june, 1961, kennedy had an unproductive meeting with soviet prime minister krushchev. his inaugural address included the now famous exhortation, \"ask not what your country can do for you.  ask what you can do for your country\". a meeting with president kennedy in vienna in 1961 resolved nothing and soon after kennedy's visit to berlin, the berlin wall went up. plaque commemorating kennedy's speech next to the front entrance of rathaus schöneberg in 1962, he attended  a dinner party at the white house hosted by president kennedy and, later in the year, after an absence of nearly 50 years, returned to russia, where he was received by soviet leader krushchev. kennedy's record on civil rights was modest but in 1962 he enforced desegregation at the university of mississippi. the kennedy presidential press conferences on november 22, 1963, kennedy was assassinated as he and his wife drove through dallas, texas. when communist china invaded india in 1962, kennedy authorized an air-lift of arms to india. in his bid for the 1956 democratic vice-presidential nomination, kennedy gave speeches across the country, often taking his glamorous wife jacqueline with him. the controversy captured the attention of president john f. kennedy, who directed his science advisory committee to investigate the matter. kennedy's hopes for closer defense and financial cooperation with europe, came to little, mainly because of the hostility of french president de gaulle. in 1946, kennedy was elected to congress as a democrat for the 11th congressional district of massachusetts. he was succeeded by president kennedy. he spent his last years as an honoured citizen and was invited to read a poem at the inauguration of president kennedy. through his father, the u.s. ambassador to britain, kennedy met european decision-makers in the period preceding the second world war (1939-45.) his honors thesis for harvard university dealt with british appeasement at munich in 1938 and was published in 1940 as: \"why england slept\". in october, 1962, alarmed at news of a russian missile base in cuba, kennedy ordered a blockade of all imported offensive weapons. base.inaugurations.inauguration.inaugural_address organization.organization.place_founded base.inaugurations.inauguration.president location.mailing_address.country location.mailing_address.country location.mailing_address.country location.mailing_address.country location.mailing_address.country location.mailing_address.country location.mailing_address.country location.mailing_address.country location.mailing_address.country location.mailing_address.country location.mailing_address.country location.mailing_address.country location.mailing_address.country location.mailing_address.country location.mailing_address.country location.mailing_address.country location.mailing_address.country