the great piano works of claude debussy debussy on music : the critical writings of the great french composer claude debussy claude debussy poet baudelaire was a fan he inspired composer debussy. achille-claude debussy composed to poetry by charles-pierre baudelaire it was the first performance of any of debussy's orchestral works. in 1880, she wrote to tchaikovsky telling him that a young pianist from paris had arrived: debussy. two other works composed during this period were dedicated to emma bardac, the future wife of  debussy. in 1913, debussy conducted his work in moscow and st. petersburg,  but failed to impress, although many russian composers since have acknowledged that debussy provided a bridge between russian and french music. achille-claude debussy composed to poetry by paul verlaine catalogue de l'oeuvre de claude debussy achille-claude debussy music sung by mary garden achille-claude debussy rival piece by igor stravinsky a friend's mother recognized debussy's talent and persuaded his father to enter him for the paris conservatoire. in 1872 debussy was accepted and studied piano and composition. achille-claude debussy impressed by paul cezanne twentieth century composers were been greatly influenced by debussy who developed his own musical structure and harmonizations. paul cezanne influenced achille-claude debussy during the composition of this piece, satie met debussy, the man who, for twenty five years, was his greatest friend. the second was a visit to rome of hungarian composer liszt,  for which debussy played. music.composition.part_of music.composition.part_of music.composition.part_of music.composition.part_of music.composition.part_of music.composition.part_of music.composition.part_of music.composer.compositions music.composer.compositions music.composer.compositions music.composer.compositions music.composer.compositions music.composer.compositions music.composer.compositions music.composer.compositions music.composer.compositions music.composer.compositions music.composer.compositions music.composer.compositions music.composer.compositions