some music, such as the piano and violin sonata k 454 written for a visiting violin virtuoso, was  so rapidly composed that mozart did not have time to write out the piano part and had to play from a piece of blank paper at the premiere. from 1790-91 mozart worked on an opera based on a german fairytale \"die zauberflote\" (\"the magic flute\") which is thought by many to include some of his most moving music. several of the great number of works mozart composed at this time show his growing maturity in technique and range, in particular his piano concerto k 271 and his five violin concertos. mozart then wrote several symphonies and his first true piano concerto (k 175 in d). when he was only four, mozart could play short pieces on the piano, and a year later he began composing. mozart had plenty of time for his own music and by august 1788, had written his last three symphonic masterpieces: the  e-flat major (k 543), the g minor (k 550) and the c major (the \"jupiter\", k 551). mozart moved to vienna where the emperor set up a friendly musical competition between mozart and the italian born english pianist and composer, clementi. mozart and his father then  returned to salzburg  where mozart wrote eight symphonies, four divertimentos, and some songs and sacred music. in october 1769, at the age of thirteen, mozart was made an honorary concert master at the salzburg court. after performing in germany they made a long visit to paris where mozart's music (sonatas for keyboard and violin) was published for the first time, and where they were invited by louis xv to have supper at versailles. over the following two and a half years, mozart and his sister played at all the most important centres for music in western europe. in spite of his success mozart was in financial difficulties and performed a large number of subscription concerts to meet the bills. mozart was a child prodigy and his musical gifts were immediately recognised by his father,  who was choir master at the archbishop's court in salzburg. http://musicmoz.org/composition/composers/m/mozart,_wolfgang_amadeus/ mozart: great piano concertos: vol. 1 even so, mozart wrote his beautiful clarinet quintet, k 581, and began to work on a new commission from joseph ii for a comic opera. wrote opera about mozart and  salieri chaliapin sang his work his work was conducted by rachmaninov. mozart: music for piano: friedrich gulda as a result of his opera, mozart was invited to go to prague where he gave a performance of his new symphony, the great d major \"prague symphony\" (k 504) in january 1787. in london, where they spent over a year, mozart performed for george iii and met johann christian bach (the younger son of johann sebastian bach) under whose guidance he wrote his first symphonies. music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer