the un is not just a product of do-gooders. it is harshly real. the day will come when men will see the u.n. and what it means clearly. everything will be all right -- you know when? when people, just people, stop thinking of the united nations as a weird picasso abstraction, and see it as a drawing they made themselves. un in action united nations university 'battlestar galactica' at the un: a night of geekery, human rights, and fantastic curtains the united nations is designed to make possible lasting freedom and independence for all its members. the whole basis of the united nations is the right of all nations--great or small--to have weight, to have a vote, to be attended to, to be a part of the twentieth century. in the devil's shadow: un special operations during the korean war u.n. in action director of un development programme united nations operation in the congo blue helmets: the strategy of un military operations united nations department of economic and social affairs union of south africa united nations and arab league envoy to syria united nations decade on biodiversit “the united nations and the organization of american states have named 2011 as the international year for people of african descent. this is an opportunity for all of us around the globe to celebrate the diversity of our societies and to honor the contributions that our fellow citizens of african descent make every day to the economic, social and political fabrics of our communities.” united nations third national report by samoa on the implementation of the united nations convention to combat desertification (unccd) united nations secretariat location south africa 1990.png base.locations.countries.planet base.locations.countries.planet base.locations.countries.continent base.locations.countries.continent base.locations.countries.continent base.locations.countries.continent base.locations.countries.continent base.locations.countries.continent base.locations.countries.continent base.locations.countries.continent base.locations.countries.continent base.locations.countries.continent base.locations.countries.continent base.locations.countries.continent base.locations.countries.continent base.locations.countries.continent base.locations.countries.continent base.locations.countries.continent base.locations.countries.continent base.locations.countries.continent