by july 1933, hitler had virtually removed the conservatives from any real participation in government, abolished the free trade unions, eliminated the communists, social democrats and jews from any role in political life, and had begun putting opponents in concentration camps. on leaving hospital, hitler returned to munich, where he worked for the army as a political agent, spying on extremist groups like the nationalist and racist german workers' party (dap), which hitler joined in september 1919. during the years 1930-33 hitler's impassioned promises attracted members of all social groups in germany, including industrial magnates, high-ranking army officials, prominent intellectuals (including the philosopher heidegger and, until 1934, the cultural historian spengler) and the wealthy members of the 'landbund', or league of land, who opposed the redistribution of land proposed by the weimar republic. then, in spite of a decline in the party's votes to 11 million in november 1932, hitler was helped to power by a deal with former chancellor papen, in which they secretly agreed to work together for a government in which hitler would be chancellor and papen's conservative supporters would hold important ministeries. in june 1934, hitler was confronted by serious opposition from within his own party, dissatisfaction and dissension centring around the sa and its leader, captain ernst rohm, who were demanding more radical social reforms. hitler left the army in 1920, and became party propagandist, editing the party newspaper the 'volkischer beobachter' ('people's observer'), arranging frequent meetings, changing the name of the party to the national-sozialistische deutsche arbeiterpartei (the national socialist german workers' party, nsdap or nazi party), imposing himself as its chairman by july 1921, and giving the new party its symbol - the swastika - and its greeting, 'heil!'. on his release, hitler began to rebuild the nazi party, which had disintegrated in his absence, with the help of goering, hess and goebbels, and in 1926 he grabbed power from a rival nazi leader, gregor strasser. however, the depression of 1929 enhanced the appeal for the nazis, and hitler found support among wealthy industrialists keen to finance a strong right-wing, anti-democratic government, which at last placed the party on a secure financial footing. with the backing of the press tycoon, alfred hugenberg, in 1929-30 hitler got nationwide exposure and in the 1930 elections, after an intensive series of rallies, the nazi vote jumped dramatically from 810,000 to 6,409,000 (18.3 per cent of the total vote), and the party won 107 seats in the reichstag, becoming the second largest party in the country. the nazi party adopted the ideas hitler had acquired in vienna - violent racial nationalism, anti-semitism and opposition to liberal democracy, combined with perverted versions of the philosophies of such german thinkers as haeckel and nietzsche - combined with a hatred of the post-war republican german government and 'socialistic' ideas of profit-sharing and nationalization. by november 1921, mainly through hitler's aggressive leadership, the party had 3,000 members. in late 1919 in a small munich beer hall, hess attended his first meeting of the german workers' party (the fledgling national socialist german workers' party, or nazi party) and heard a speech by hitler, and on 1 july 1920 joined the nazi party as its sixteenth member. the mid-1920s saw a period of economic stability in germany, and while in january 1925 the ban on the party was removed in bavaria, allowing hitler to speak in public, elsewhere prohibitions remained in force until 1927-28, and the nazi party won only 12 seats in the 1928 elections. himmler's first contact with the nazi party (established in 1920, with hitler as chairman by july, 1921) was in 1923, when he joined the paramilitary, nationalist reichskriegsflagge under captain ernst rohm. in the last 'democractic' elections held in germany in march 1933, the nazi party gained a majority, and two days  later an enabling bill giving full powers to hitler was passed in the reichstag by the combined votes of nazi, nationalist, and centre party deputies. although hindenburg won the majority in the run-off election held in july 1932, the nazi party emerged as the single largest party in germany, obtaining nearly 14 million votes and 230 seats. during the next four years (1934-38), helped by economic recovery and a reduction in unemployment, hitler enjoyed a series of international successes which consolidated his power in germany, and helped (along with goebbels' propaganda) germany to accept the  nazification of all aspects of german life, enforced by himmler's secret state police (gestapo) and the opening of concentration camps for political opponents and jews, who were systematically persecuted. had political connections with lloyd george,  hitler,  balfour,  mussolini. by november 1923 hitler was convinced that the weimar republic was on the verge of collapse, and together with ludendorff and local nationalist groups he tried to overthrow the bavarian government in munich. in the 1932 elections, just after becoming a german citizen, hitler opposed the aging hindenburg in the presidential election, taking  36.8 percent of the vote on the second ballot and depriving von hindenburg of the necessary absolute majority. government.political_party.politicians_in_this_party government.political_ideology.political_parties government.political_ideology.political_parties government.political_ideology.political_parties government.political_ideology.political_parties government.political_ideology.political_parties government.political_ideology.political_parties government.political_ideology.political_parties government.political_party.ideology government.political_party.ideology government.political_party.ideology government.political_party.ideology government.political_party.ideology government.political_party.ideology government.political_party.ideology government.political_party.ideology government.political_party.ideology government.political_party.ideology government.political_party.ideology government.political_party.ideology