gutenberg changed history with his typeface and printing press. using paper he had made from cloth rags and vellum sheets, gutenberg set about printing his bible, which may have begun as early as 1450 (but more probably in 1452). the evidence for this is a five-year agreement he made in 1438 with three strasbourg men - hans riffe, andres heilmann and andres dritzehen - which indicates that by this date gutenberg had invented a new technological process (in all probability his prototype printing press) and agreed to teach it to his three partners in return for a fee and large loans. the agreement with riffe and heilmann came to an end in 1443, by which time it is assumed (on the basis of the existence of a scrap of paper with eleven printed lines on each side, dated to 1442, which is the oldest example of european printing from moveable type) that gutenberg had had begun printing. this suggests that by 1438 gutenberg and dritzehen had in all probability already invented a printing process using moveable type (separate pieces of wood or metal for each letter of the alphabet). this work, now known as the gutenberg bible, is regarded as the first major book to come from a printing press. the partnership agreement ended in 1443, and by 1450 gutenberg was back in mainz borrowing money from goldsmith and financier johann fust to set up a new press, with the printing tools and equipment acting as security. he lost the suit, but the trial revealed that gutenberg was working on a new invention, and that some of the money advanced by dritzehen had been used to buy lead and other metals, a wooden press, and some printing materials. meanwhile, it appears that during the late 1450s gutenberg was able to establish a print-shop but all that is known for certain of gutenberg's last years is that in january 1465 he received a pension from the archbishop of mainz, as a distinguished citizen of mainz, and was given an annual measure of grain, wine, and clothing and exempted from certain taxes. aldus manutius used press of johannes gutenberg he made sure to employ gutenberg's foreman, peter schoeffer, and several other of his workers, and with this team continued to print, publishing the bible in 1456, and then in august 1457, the first printed book in europe to carry both name of its printer (fust and schoeffer) and the date:-  the magnificent psalter (book of psalms). meanwhile, fust had gained control of the type for the bible and for gutenberg's other masterpiece, an edition of the psalter, and most of gutenberg's printing equipment. meanwhile, gutenberg had at last perfected his method of casting type sufficiently to set about printing his chosen text, the bible, probably starting work on this enormous project in 1452. gutenberg based his invention on the method then used to mint coins, pouring molten metal into shapes and letting it set into coins called blanks, which were then reheated and punched with a design by a die, the pressure produced by huge screw presses. gutenberg developed a method by which his type could be produced individually by punching and engraving a steel character (i.e. letter shape) into a piece of copper to form a mold which he then filled with molten lead. the art of printing using moveable type is thought to have been originally invented during the 11th century in china,  but it was unknown in europe. by the late 1430s he had apparently begun experimenting with printing. the invention consisted of:-   a mold with punch-stamped matrices (metal prisms used to mold the face of the type) with which type could be cast precisely and in large quantities, a type-metal alloy, a specially-designed press (based on those used in wine making, papermaking, and bookbinding), and an oil-based printing ink. it has been estimated that two pages of gutenberg's bible would have needed about six thousand pieces of type, all of which had to be exactly the same depth to produce uniform print. johannes gutenberg invention improved by willem blaeu law.inventor.inventions law.invention.inventor base.argumentmaps.innovator.original_ideas people.person.place_of_birth base.biblioness.bibs_location.country freebase.type_profile.published freebase.type_profile.published people.person.places_lived symbols.namesake.named_after symbols.namesake.named_after common.image.appears_in_topic_gallery common.image.appears_in_topic_gallery common.resource.annotations people.deceased_person.place_of_death people.place_lived.person people.place_lived.location symbols.name_source.namesakes symbols.name_source.namesakes symbols.name_source.namesakes symbols.name_source.namesakes