carolus linnaeus knew family of anders celsius anders celsius invited on expedition by pierre-louis moreau de maupertuis george graham sold instruments to anders celsius anders celsius at uppsala, linnaeus was encouraged by the uncle of the astronomer celsius. in 1725 celsius was made secretary of the royal society of sciences in uppsala, and the same year was appointed professor of mathematics at the university. on return to france, in 1738 celsius also became involved in the controversy surrounding maupertuis, and in maupertuis' defence, against attacks by cassini,  wrote:  'disquisition on observations made in france for determining the shape of the earth.' celsius returned to uppsala in 1739, and devoted himself to improving astronomical studies and research at the university. maupertuis invited celsius to join the expedition to lapland, and in 1735 celsius went to london, england in order to buy the necessary  astronomical instruments from the famous clock- and instrument-maker graham. celsius read his famous paper on his thermometer: \"observations  concerning the two constant degrees on a thermometer\"  to the swedish  academy of sciences in 1742, and it was long known as the \"swedish  thermometer\", only around 1800 becoming known as the celsius thermometer. pierre-louis moreau de maupertuis expedition with anders celsius in 1741-42 celsius made his most important scientific contribution, when, to aid his meteorological observations he constructed his celsius thermometer. maupertuis left paris in may 1736, accompanied by several scientists including the young celsius, and travelled to tornea in northern sweden, where he made his base and from where the measurements and observations were made. celsius bought the lapland expedition instruments from him. his involvement in the french expedition had made him internationally famous, and helped him secure from the swedish authorities the resources necessary to build a modern observatory in uppsala in 1741,  equipped with the most technologically advanced instruments then available, which celsius had purchased during his travels. in the early 18th century, geographical and meteorological observation and measurement were considered part of the work of an astronomer, and during the early 1740's celsius contributed many geographical measurements to the swedish national map project. he was made professor of astronomy in april 1730,  and later that year published his first major work:  'a dissertation on a new method of calculating the distance of the sun from the  earth.' in 1732 he left sweden and travelled around europe for four years, during which he visited almost all the main observatories of  the day, and worked with many of the leading 18th-century astronomers. the following year he accompanied the expedition to tornea in  northern sweden (now tornio, finland), and during 1736-37 he assisted with measurements in lapland. he also made observations of eclipses, and published a popular mathematics textbook: 'arithmetic for swedish youth' (1741). he  first visited observatories in berlin and nuremberg, where in 1733 he  published a collection of 316 observations of the  northern lights made by himself and others from 1716 to 1732. albert camus base.aareas.schema.administrative_area.administrative_children base.aareas.schema.administrative_area.administrative_children base.aareas.schema.administrative_area.administrative_children base.aareas.schema.administrative_area.administrative_children base.aareas.schema.administrative_area.administrative_children base.aareas.schema.administrative_area.administrative_children base.aareas.schema.administrative_area.administrative_children base.aareas.schema.administrative_area.administrative_children base.aareas.schema.administrative_area.administrative_children base.aareas.schema.administrative_area.administrative_children base.aareas.schema.administrative_area.administrative_children base.aareas.schema.administrative_area.administrative_children base.aareas.schema.administrative_area.administrative_children base.aareas.schema.administrative_area.administrative_children base.aareas.schema.administrative_area.administrative_children base.aareas.schema.administrative_area.administrative_children base.aareas.schema.administrative_area.administrative_children base.aareas.schema.administrative_area.administrative_children base.aareas.schema.administrative_area.administrative_children base.aareas.schema.administrative_area.administrative_children