gregor mendel gregor mendel institute gregor mendel was ordained as an augustinian priest at st. thomas monastery in brÿnn on august 6, 1847, following his graduation from the brÿnn theological college. gregor mendel work confirmed by hugo de vries gregor mendel work confirmed by erich von tschermak gregor mendel work confirmed by carl franz joseph-erich correns realizing that mendel was self-taught, one of his examiners recommended that he go to the university of vienna for additional study. charles robert darwin work related to gregor mendel mendel returned to brunn in 1854. gregor mendel was the first to apply mathematical and scientific principles to the biological process of heredity, by tracking characteristics physically and statistically rather than by observing results and deducting the process by which the results were obtained. christian doppler taught gregor mendel carl franz joseph-erich correns work related to gregor mendel mendel's abbot agreed, and mendel attended the university from 1851 to 1853, studying the natural sciences and mathematics. naegli dismissed the genetic studies of gregor mendel as being of interest only as empirical observations, although he and mendel conducted an extensive correspondence. hugo de vries work related to gregor mendel erich von tschermak anticipated by gregor mendel in march 1868, mendel was elected abbot of st. thomas' monastery. anton mendel tschermak was seemingly unaware that mendel had performed the exact experiment nearly fifty years earlier. in 1900 three scientists independently and simultaneously re-discovered mendel's paper and confirmed his work: correns, de vries and tschermak. people.person.places_lived people.person.places_lived people.person.places_lived people.person.places_lived people.place_lived.location people.place_lived.location people.place_lived.person people.place_lived.person people.place_lived.person people.place_lived.person location.mailing_address.country location.country.currency_used location.country.currency_used location.location.people_born_here location.location.people_born_here location.location.people_born_here location.country.languages_spoken location.country.languages_spoken location.country.languages_spoken location.country.languages_spoken