franz liszt: the man and his music liszt was the greatest piano virtuoso of his time, a composer of enormous originality, and a principal figure in the romantic movement. in 1823, now a famous child prodigy, liszt moved with his  family to paris, giving concerts in munich, stuttgart and other german towns. liszt now had ample time to compose, as well as conduct the court orchestra for the next 12 years, a period of remarkable productivity. in his last years, liszt's music became starker, more introverted, and more experimental. for the next eight years liszt lived mainly in rome and occupied himself more and more with religious music. in 1822, liszt's family moved to vienna, where liszt studied the  piano with austrian pianist and composer czerny, and composition with  italian composer and conductor salieri, musical director of the viennese court. liszt compared this work to beethoven's music. achille-claude debussy played for franz liszt franz liszt, vol. 1: the virtuoso years, 1811-1847 in 1835, at 24, liszt took a teaching post at the newly founded geneva conservatory and wrote a manual of piano technique (now lost). after daniel died in 1859 at age 20, liszt wrote the oration for orchestra \" les morts\"  in the youth's memory. franz liszt performed with jacques offenbach in 1869, liszt was invited to return to weimar by the grand duke to give master classes in piano. in the summer of 1886, liszt visited bayreuth for the wedding of his granddaughter daniela von bulow, and then went to luxembourg,  where he made his last appearance as pianist at a concert of the musical society of luxembourg, playing his first \"liebestraum\"  and no. life of franz liszt liszt had been director of music to the weimar court in germany since 1843, and decided to take the appointment as a full-time job, moving there in 1848, with the princess joining him later. the countess returned to paris and liszt returned to his career as a virtuoso. after a tour of the balkans, turkey and russia, liszt gave his final concert at elisavetgrad  (kirovograd),  and spent the winter with princess at her estate in woronince in poland. then came a letter from liszt, praising grieg's compositions, and this won him a scholarship from the norwegian ministry of education. music.lyricist.lyrics_written music.composition.lyricist music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer