karl marx studied work of charles babbage the works of charles babbage charles babbage science and reform : selected works of charles babbage the difference engine: charles babbage and the quest to build the first computer charles babbage influenced karl marx john frederick william herschel fellow student was charles babbage she continued to educate herself and in 1842 she read an article on babbage's invention which had been written in french by a young italian military engineer, luigi frederico menabrea (later prime minister of italy). charles whitmore babbage in 1833 she met babbage who agreed to give her a demonstration of the calculating machine he had invented. she managed to meet mary somerville, an established figure in the scientific world, and was taken by her to lectures and to parties given by babbage. babbage has recorded that he offered to write on the computing of bernoulli numbers but when he did so, ada had to correct his presentation. charles babbage institute charles babbage's analytical engine \"notions sur la machine analytique de charles babbage\" appeared  in the bibliotheque universelle de geneve in october 1842 and soon afterwards ada wrote to tell babbage she had translated menabrea's article into english. she read mary met^ somerville's^ book \"the connection of the physical sciences\", attended a series of lectures at the mechanics' institute on babbage's invention, and persuaded her mother to take her on a tour of manufacturing cities where she watched potters, metal workers, cutlers and textile workers  producing their goods. herschel had also been conducting a series of experiments in electricity and magnetism with babbage which related to experiments with rapidly rotating metal disks carried out by arago and which led to the shuttle winding for the dynamo by the german engineer werner von siemens. knew babbage and brandes. ada was entranced and began to take every opportunity to meet babbage and other scientists. there has been much speculation - but no evidence - that babbage encouraged her and that they used his computer for a betting system. astronomy.astronomical_discovery.discoverer astronomy.astronomical_discovery.discovery_site base.argumentmaps.original_idea.innovator base.argumentmaps.original_idea.innovator base.mathematics1.mathematician.theorems_with_his_her_name law.inventor.inventions law.inventor.inventions law.inventor.inventions law.inventor.inventions law.inventor.inventions law.inventor.inventions law.inventor.inventions law.inventor.inventions law.inventor.inventions law.inventor.inventions law.inventor.inventions base.biblioness.bibs_topic.is_really base.biblioness.bibs_topic.is_really base.biblioness.bibs_topic.is_really base.biblioness.bibs_topic.is_really