classical guitar music of vivaldi at rote schloss, the interest was in the new italian style of music which was then becoming the rage of europe, one of the chief exponents being the venetian composer vivaldi. vivaldi - sonata for cello and basso continuo in a minor, op. 14, no. 3, rv 43 répertoire des oeuvres instrumentales d'antonio vivaldi music minus one guitar: vivaldi, two concerti for guitar (lute) & orchestra: c major, rv425 (f. v/1); d major, rv93 (f. xii/15) antonio vivaldi et la musique instrumentale tome ii: inventaire thématique vivaldi's introduzioni during this period he wrote four overtures, the six french and six english suites, several concertos for one and two violins and more for various ensembles were written. catalogo numerico tematico delle composizioni di antonio vivaldi vivaldi in venice antonio vivaldi - catalogo numerico-tematico delle opere strumentali his music has been supreme for composers and music lovers alike throughout two and a half centuries. vivaldi at weimar he now came into contact with italian instrumental music and acted as deputy to the aging court organist, effler, an old friend of the bach family, thus having a chance to keep his organ playing in practice. bach and his cousin johann georg walther transcribed some of the italian instrumental concertos for keyboard instruments. venice classic radio - beautiful classical music his last great work is the summation of all his skill in counterpoint and fugue, methods which he perfected and which no composer has ever surpassed, the work known  as 'the art of the fugue'. 3 concertos for string orchestra - rv115, rv144, rv161 for the following easter, he produced a cantata, collected together an orchestra of strings, three trumpets and drums to support his choir and staggered the faithful of arnstadt with a brilliant performance. while awaiting the completion of the organ at arnstadt, johann sebastian was offered and accepted the post of violinist in the small chamber orchestra of duke johann ernst, the younger brother of the duke of weimar. base.musiteca.composition.composer base.musiteca.composition.composer base.musiteca.composition.composer base.musiteca.composition.composer base.musiteca.composition.composer base.musiteca.composition.composer base.musiteca.composition.composer base.musiteca.composition.composer base.musiteca.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer