in that same year, wagner wrote his first opera, \"the fairies\", influenced by  the magic plays with music he had seen on a visit to vienna. while in zurich, wagner wrote the librettos for his opera cycle \"the ring of the nibelung\" influenced by his study of norse legends, german mythology and fairy tales. in \"tristan and isolde\", wagner allowed the music to dominate and express the emotions of the characters. wagner spent the rest of his life in bayreuth, with visits to london and italy for concerts. a warrant was issued for wagner's arrest and he left germany for zurich, missing the first performance of \"lohengrin\", which his friend, the composer liszt, conducted at weimar in 1850. to escape the consequent marital upsets, wagner left zurich and went alone to venice and then to lucerne,  to finish his opera. wagner on music and drama; a compendium of richard wagner's prose works. selected and arranged, and with an introd. by albert goldman and evert sprinchorn the wagner operas wagner on music and drama when wagner was eight years old his father died and the family moved to prague. wagner's opera lohengrin, containing the italian text, with an english translation and the music of all the principal airs wagner on music and drama : a compendium of richard wagner's prose works in 1840, wagner finished his opera \"rienzi\" and, in 1841 began \"the flying dutchman\". wagner: a biography : with a survey of books, editions, and recordings in 1877 wagner wrote his opera \"parsifal\" and began his last affair (with judith, the daughter of french poet gautier). guide to the music of richard wagner's tetralogy in 1843 wagner was appointed conductor of the dresden court opera and october 1845 saw the premiere of \"tannhauser\". wilhelm richard wagner heard by peter ilich tchaikovsky wagner had by now fallen in love with mathilde wesendonck, a married woman. wagner was now putting all his energies into mounting a production of the entire ring cycle. music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer