in 1804 beethoven completed his third symphony, considered by many to be his finest work. in 1810, e.t.a. hoffmann wrote an appreciation of the fifth symphony (composed in 1808, when beethoven also wrote the sixth), which undoubtedly did much to publicize the work and the composer around the world. in 1783,  at the age of 13, beethoven was  appointed continuo  player to the bonn opera. in may of the same year, the young german composer beethoven called on him to ask for lessons. the ninth symphony was beethoven's last single major work. however, beethoven respected clementi's music more than mozart's. beethoven - the piano concertos (wiener philharmoniker feat. conductor: krystian zimerman) (disc 1) this period of beethoven's life was extremely productive, among many great works the opera 'fidelio', written for the winter season of 1805. while studying under haydn, beethoven also studied vocal composition with salieri, the imperial kappellmeister. beethoven (extended 12\" philharmonic version) beethoven took the commission, but in fact produced not three, but five, quartets. beethoven: piano concerto nos. 3 & 5 english music lovers, already very aware of beethoven's work because of the efforts of george thomson, his english agent and publisher, now began to actively promote beethoven in london society. the last quartet was finished in 1826 and beethoven spent that summer on the estate of his surviving brother, nicolaus johann. he attended a concert conducted by karl von weber but what rossini really wanted to do was meet beethoven - who was then working on his ninth symphony and had earlier described rossini's music as frivolous. goethe, in turn, considered beethoven \"an utterly untamed personality, who is not altogether in the wrong in holding the world to be detestable, but surely does not make it any the more enjoyable either for himself or for others by his attitude.\" beethoven's main compositions of 1811 and 1812 were his seventh and eighth symphonies, with the seventh being premiered in 1813. beethoven wrote \"wellington's victory\" (opus no. 91), sometimes referred to as the \"battle symphony,\" and remarkable for its use of actual musket fire. he apparently hoped to set up a financially lucrative arrangement of some sort with beethoven, but he returned to italy disappointed. she was also instrumental in bringing together beethoven and goethe at teplitz in 1812. beethoven (i love to listen to) music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer