believe nothing, o monks, merely because you have been told it or because it is traditional, or because you yourselves have imagined it. do not believe what your teacher tells you merely out of respect for the teacher. but whatsoever, after due examination and analysis, you find to be conducive to the good, the benefit, the welfare of all beingsthat doctrine believe and cling to, and take it as your guide. buddhism is not a creed, it is a doubt. the creed of buddha believe nothing merely because you have been told it. do not believe what your teacher tells you merely out of respect for the teacher. but whatsoever, after due examination and analysis, you find to be kind, conducive to the good, the benefit, the welfare of all beings -- that doctrine believe and cling to, and take it as your guide. believe nothing, no matter where you read it, or who said it, no matter if i have said it, unless it agrees with your own reason and your own common sense. the buddhas do but tell the way; it is for you to swelter at the task. the buddha and his dhamma belief the origin and philosophy of buddhism the dharma or the religion of enlightenment what the buddha taught there is, so i believe, in the essence of everything, something that we cannot call learning. there is, my friend, only a knowledge -- that is everywhere. the teachings of buddha the principal teachings of buddhism the basic concepts of buddhism the wisdom of buddhism teachings of the buddha buddhist philosophy buddhism and its christian critics buddhism in the west religion.belief.belief_of religion.belief.belief_of religion.belief.belief_of religion.belief.belief_of religion.belief.belief_of religion.belief.belief_of religion.belief.belief_of religion.belief.belief_of religion.belief.belief_of religion.belief.belief_of religion.belief.belief_of religion.belief.belief_of religion.belief.belief_of religion.belief.belief_of religion.belief.belief_of religion.belief.belief_of religion.belief.belief_of religion.belief.belief_of religion.religion.beliefs religion.religion.beliefs