in 1960, kennedy was nominated democratic presidential candidate and johnson surprised many supporters by agreeing to become kennedy's running mate. in 1946, kennedy was elected to congress as a democrat for the 11th congressional district of massachusetts. kennedy's huge majority in the senate elections of 1958 made him a promising presidential contender, and in 1960 he defeated his chief rival for nomination, hubert humphrey. he was succeeded by president kennedy. kennedy was elected by a slender majority, and at 43 became the youngest president and the first catholic in the white house. in his bid for the 1956 democratic vice-presidential nomination, kennedy gave speeches across the country, often taking his glamorous wife jacqueline with him. john f. kennedy 1961 presidential inauguration in 1960, nixon was chosen republican presidential candidate, but narrowly lost to the charismatic democratic candidate kennedy. in the senate elections of 1952, kennedy won a resounding victory over republican incumbent henry cabot lodge jr. in 1947, kennedy was diagnosed with addison's disease, a glandular disease, and underwent two risky spinal operations, which were only partially successful. john f. kennedy 1960 presidential campaign kennedy's record on civil rights was modest but in 1962 he enforced desegregation at the university of mississippi. the real making of the president : kennedy, nixon, and the 1960 election in a televised debate with nixon, kennedy's charm and charisma made him an easy winner. when president kennedy became us president in 1961, harriman once again missed out on the job of secretary of state and was disappointed when the position went to  dean rusk,  a much younger man. on november 22, 1963, kennedy was assassinated as he and his wife drove through dallas, texas. government.political_party_tenure.politician government.political_party_tenure.politician government.political_party_tenure.politician government.political_appointer.appointees government.political_appointer.appointees government.political_appointer.appointees government.political_appointer.appointees government.political_appointer.appointees government.political_appointer.appointees government.political_appointer.appointees government.political_appointer.appointees government.political_appointer.appointees government.political_appointer.appointees government.political_appointer.appointees government.political_appointer.appointees