during the early 1660s, hooke made important improvements to the compound microscope and in 1665, he published his great scientific work, 'micrographia' ('small drawings'). hooke was given the position of curator of experiments and from late 1662, his job was to provide each weekly meeting 'with three or four considerable experiments', and to test other experiments that might be suggested. in 1674, he met and befriended the experimental physicist hooke, who introduced him to flamsteed, the first astronomer royal. hooke was perhaps the greatest experimental scientist of the seventeenth century. at some point around 1671, he was inspired to take up microscopy, either through having seen a copy of hooke's popular illustrated book 'micrographia' (1665), or  through a desire to improve the glasses used generally by drapers to inspect the quality of cloth. in 1666, immediately after the great fire of london, hooke became one of three surveyors given the job of re-establishing property lines and supervising the massive rebuilding work. with it, boyle (with hooke's assistance) carried out the experiments which resulted in boyle's law, published in 1662. the second, in 1678, proposed the inverse square law of gravitation to explain planetary motions, but hooke wasn't able to prove the law mathematically. hooke continued lecturing throughout the 1670s, during which time he published a series of six works which, at the end of the decade, were collected in a single volume called 'lectiones cutlerianae'. in 1658, hooke took on the challenging task of designing an accurate portable clock. later that year he  became hooke's assistant at the royal society, and was elected a fellow in late 1680. in 1677, hooke and the plant anatomist grew had followed oldenburg as secretaries of the royal society, but hooke was unsuccessful in the job and resigned after five years. scientist users included the english physicists  boyle (1669) and  hooke (1680), who constructed his own \"perspective box\" to demonstrate to the royal society the law of vision (it included the novel feature of diaphragms of different sizes to be put over the lens to demonstrate the expansion and contraction of the pupil of the eye). by 1655, hooke had met wilkins, willis, petty, wallis, wren, sprat and boyle. wallis had kept up his contacts with the men of science around boyle who met regularly in  london or oxford, and when this  group became the royal society in 1662 he was one of the founder members with such as hooke. astronomy.astronomical_observatory.discoveries astronomy.astronomical_discovery.discoverer astronomy.astronomical_discovery.discovery_site religion.place_of_worship_historical_use.religion religion.place_of_worship_historical_use.religion religion.place_of_worship_historical_use.religion astronomy.asteroid.member_of_asteroid_group astronomy.orbital_relationship.orbits religion.religion.places_of_worship_historical religion.religion.places_of_worship_historical religion.religion.places_of_worship_historical law.inventor.inventions law.inventor.inventions law.inventor.inventions astronomy.celestial_object.category