it is a dogma of the roman church that the existence of god can be proved by natural reason. now this dogma would make it impossible for me to be a roman catholic. if i thought of god as another being like myself, outside myself, only infinitely more powerful, then i would regard it as my duty to defy him. catholicism is not a soothing religion. it's a painful religion. we're all gluttons for punishment. the thing with catholicism, the same as all religions, is that it teaches what should be, which seems rather incorrect. this is what should be. now, if you're taught to live up to a what should be that never existed -- only an occult superstition, no proof of this should be -- then you can sit on a jury and indict easily, you can cast the first stone, you can burn adolf eichmann, like that! she had once been a catholic, but discovering that priests were infinitely more attentive when she was in process of losing or regaining faith in mother church, she maintained an enchantingly wavering attitude. our religion is itself profoundly sad -- a religion of universal anguish, and one which, because of its very catholicity, grants full liberty to the individual and asks no better than to be celebrated in each man's own language -- so long as he knows anguish and is a painter. one cannot really be a catholic and grown up. the catholic spirit an abridgement of the book of martyrs to which are prefixed, the living testimonies of the church of god ... an account of the just judgements of god on persecutors, &c., also a christian plea against persecution for the cause of conscience it is by far the most elegant worship, hardly excepting the greek mythology. what with incense, pictures, statues, altars, shrines, relics, and the real presence, confession, absolution, -- there is something sensible to grasp at. besides, it leaves no possibility of doubt; for those who swallow their deity, really and truly, in transubstantiation, can hardly find any thing else otherwise than easy of digestion. the catholic herald catholicism eucharist in the catholic church the catholic times weaving the body of god: proclus of constantinople, the theotokos, and the loom of the flesh the quest for god: a personal pilgrimage religion.religion.collective_term_for_adherents religion.religion.deities religion.religion.deities religion.religion.deities religion.religion.deities religion.religion.deities religion.religion.deities religion.religion.deities religion.religion.deities religion.religion.deities religion.religion.deities religion.religion.deities religion.religion.deities religion.religion.deities religion.religion.deities