in 1871 tchaikovsky gave a piano concert of his music at the russian musical society in moscow. tchaikovsky's writing music for classical ballet is unsurpassed. in 1862 in st. petersburg, tchaikovsky attended music courses given by the russian musical society at the mikhailovsky palace, home of the grand duchess elena pavlovna. turning his hand to music criticism, tchaikovsky wrote a defense of russian composer rimsky-korsakov, an article that favorably impressed \"the five,\" a group of five nationalist russian composers (mussorgsky, ceu, borodin, and rimsky-korsakov, and led by mily balakirev). tchaikovsky, now 36, had a stellar reputation as a composer, both in russia and abroad, but he was not making much money. the tchaikovsky handbook. a guide to the man and his music russian novelist turgenev was at the concert and his presence was a public endorsement of tchaikovsky's music. in 1866, when he was 26, tchaikovsky took up a position as professor of harmony at the moscow conservatory, run by rubinstein's brother nikolai. the 1872 performance of tchaikovsky's second symphony in both  moscow and st. petersburg was received enthusiastically. also in 1875,  tchaikovsky started to write his third symphony, and also began work on music for \"swan lake\", commissioned by the imperial theaters. tchaikovsky agreed to arrange some of his music for von meck and his pupil to play together. tchaikovsky and more in 1891, tchaikovsky conducted in new york, baltimore and philadelphia. he visited the usa in 1875-76 and during this tour, comprising 139 concerts, he gave the premiere of  tchaikovsky's \"first piano concerto\" in boston in october, 1875. tchaikovsky's first publicly-performed work was a set of dances conducted in an open-air concert by johann strauss the younger. music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer music.composition.composer