columbus' career as a seaman began in 1476, when he sailed with a convoy of genoese ships from chios in the aegean for portugal, england and flanders. in 1478 or 1479, columbus married felipa moniz perestrello, a member of a prominent but impoverished portuguese family, with whom he soon afterwards settled on the island of porto santo, off madeira, where their only son, diego, was born in 1480. as a result, in the summer of 1485, columbus left portugal for spain, taking with him his five-year-old son, whom he placed in a franciscan friary at la rabida, near huelva. meanwhile, columbus had begun a long liaison with beatriz de enriques, who bore him a son, fernando, and had hispanicized his name, signing himself cristobal colon. origin theories of christopher columbus columbus in cuba. from the journal of columbus during his first voyage, 1492 his ship was sunk off cape st. vincent in southwest portugal, and from this point columbus based himself in lisbon, where his brother bartholomew was working as a cartographer. during these years of waiting, bartholomew columbus is believed to have visited england in an abortive attempt to interest henry vii in his brother's proposed enterprise, and then settled in france, intending to approach the french monarch. in january 1492, columbus was intending to join his brother when he heard that the intensive lobbying of the spanish monarchs by the spanish treasurer, luis de santángel, the franciscan friars of la rábida, and an influential group of genoese and florentine investors, had been successful, and that he had been summoned back to court at santa fe, near granada. columbus went to the portuguese for support when he proposed his voyage to discover a better route to india by sailing to the west. eventually two caravels arrived, and on 28 june 1504 columbus sailed for santo domingo, and from there, on 12 september, on his last homeward voyage. columbus's first great achievement was his decision to sail via the canary islands, off the northwest african mainland, rather than via the azores (where the belt of westerly winds had defeated previous sailors to the west). columbus' humiliating homecoming at cadiz at the end of october 1500 caused a public outcry, and a month later the king and queen ordered his release. when columbus made his first transatlantic voyage in 1492, he did it under the patronage of ferdinand and isabella of spain. convinced that he was in the orient, columbus spent the next three months cruising around the caribbean, discovering cuba and hispaniola (haiti), where he found at least enough gold and prosperity to secure his triumphant return to spain, although he felt increasingly anxious concerning his inability to find conclusive evidence of asia . location.location.people_born_here location.location.people_born_here location.location.people_born_here location.location.people_born_here location.location.people_born_here location.location.people_born_here location.location.people_born_here location.location.people_born_here location.location.people_born_here location.location.people_born_here location.location.people_born_here location.location.people_born_here location.location.people_born_here location.location.people_born_here location.location.people_born_here