the achievement of galileo from 1585 to 1589 galileo gave lessons in mathematics in florence and siena, and in 1586 he published an essay (describing his invention of a hydrostatic balance) which made him known throughout italy, and won him the support of a wealthy patron, the marchese del monte, for whom he wrote a treatise on the centre of gravity in solids (1588) and who got him the job of lecturer in mathematics at the university of pisa. early in 1611 galileo travelled to rome, where he spent several months demonstrating his discoveries,  and winning the approval of the jesuits of the roman college, the pope and several cardinals. viviani revered galileo and after his death in 1642  he hoped to edit and publish an account of his life and works and to develop the new ideas about mathematics galileo's work had stimulated. the private life of galileo once he was totally blind (1638), galileo was permitted to have his two friends, the geometrician viviani and torricelli, to live with him, to whom he was dictating his latest ideas on the theory of impact when he was seized with the slow fever that resulted in his death. on his return, galileo turned again to physics, and published a book on the behaviour of bodies placed in water: 'discourses on things that float' (1612). in pisa, galileo began a controversial campaign to discredit accepted aristotelian physics. discoveries and opinions of galileo inevitably, after a comparison of these two systems, galileo came down heavily on the side of copernicanism, and urban viii, feeling he had been tricked, summoned the old scientist to rome in february 1633. galileo then returned to florence and spent the next several years working on his great book, 'dialogo sopra i due massimi sistemi del mondo, tolemaico e copernicano' ('dialogue concerning the two chief world systems - ptolemaic and copernican'), which he completed in 1630 and was permitted to publish in 1632. life of galileo in the summer of 1610 galileo resigned from padua, and returned to florence as mathematician and philosopher to cosimo ii, with no teaching duties and a large salary. he always referred to himself afterwards as \"galileo's last pupil\". having now spoken out publicly and decisively for the copernican system galileo faced increasing attacks from church authorities because of contradictions between the copernican theory and the scriptures, and in 1614 he was reported to the inquisition. common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for common.topic.notable_for