in 1913, einstein was made director of scientific research at the kaiser wilhelm institute for physics in berlin and given a chair in physics  at the university of berlin, where he became the colleague of, among others, planck, nernst, and later schrodinger. he was studied by einstein. but it was einstein who achieved credit for explaining relativity in understandable terms. in 1910, he went to see einstein in zurich and they talked about the relevance of einstein's work in specific heats to his own experiments. einstein's hypothesis and accompanying mathematical formula, which has become known as einstein's photoelectric law, were confirmed by several experiments, laid the practical foundation for the fields of quantum physics and quantitative photoelectric chemistry, and got him the 1921 nobel prize in physics. instead, much to the dismay of the majority of his fellow scientists (in particular his close friend the german quantum theorist born), einstein devoted the remaining years of his life to the search for a unified field theory, a single mathematical theory that would encompass all physical fields, particularly gravitation and electromagnetism. einstein: his life and universe einstein : his life and universe einstein began his work on relativity by making two assumptions. the equations he provided to explain the forces in this field provided the basis for einstein's theory of relativity. einstein's publication of his \"foundation of the general theory of relativity\" essentially brought to a close the revolutionary period of his scientific career. although einstein's relativity theories were too radical to be immediately accepted, they were supported by a series of astronomical confirmations which eventually won over almost every physicist to his cause. as his reputation grew, einstein was then appointed as full professor at the german university of prague in 1911, and then at the federal technical institute at zurich in 1912. einstein : : the life and times the same year,  in 'the annals of physics'  einstein published three papers (on brownian motion, the photoelectric effect, and special relativity) that not only established his genius as a theoretical physicist, but also changed both the face of physics and humanity's view of the universe. chemistry.chemical_element.discoverer astronomy.asteroid.member_of_asteroid_group base.mathematics1.mathematician.theorems_with_his_her_name base.mathematics1.mathematician.theorems_with_his_her_name astronomy.astronomical_discovery.discoverer chemistry.chemical_element.atomic_mass law.inventor.inventions law.inventor.inventions astronomy.astronomical_observatory.discoveries chemistry.chemical_element.isotopes chemistry.chemical_element.isotopes chemistry.chemical_element.isotopes chemistry.chemical_element.isotopes chemistry.chemical_element.isotopes chemistry.chemical_element.isotopes