it is a dogma of the roman church that the existence of god can be proved by natural reason. now this dogma would make it impossible for me to be a roman catholic. if i thought of god as another being like myself, outside myself, only infinitely more powerful, then i would regard it as my duty to defy him. the thing with catholicism, the same as all religions, is that it teaches what should be, which seems rather incorrect. this is what should be. now, if you're taught to live up to a what should be that never existed -- only an occult superstition, no proof of this should be -- then you can sit on a jury and indict easily, you can cast the first stone, you can burn adolf eichmann, like that! catholicism is not a soothing religion. it's a painful religion. we're all gluttons for punishment. one cannot really be a catholic and grown up. she had once been a catholic, but discovering that priests were infinitely more attentive when she was in process of losing or regaining faith in mother church, she maintained an enchantingly wavering attitude. the catholic spirit roman catholic dogma catholicism the assumption has been a subject of christian art for centuries. this painting is believed to be by bartolome murillo our religion is itself profoundly sad -- a religion of universal anguish, and one which, because of its very catholicity, grants full liberty to the individual and asks no better than to be celebrated in each man's own language -- so long as he knows anguish and is a painter. virgin and child enthroned with saints peter, paul, john the baptist, dominic and a donor rationality of god transcendental argument for the existence of god belief god religion.belief.belief_of religion.belief.belief_of religion.belief.belief_of religion.belief.belief_of religion.belief.belief_of religion.belief.belief_of religion.belief.belief_of religion.belief.belief_of religion.belief.belief_of religion.belief.belief_of religion.belief.belief_of religion.belief.belief_of religion.religion.beliefs religion.religion.beliefs religion.religion.beliefs