over the next twenty years copernicus developed his ideas, backing them up with mathematical calculations and diagrams. a more perfect heaven: how copernicus revolutionized the cosmos in copernicus's time, while some astronomers and philosophers even welcomed his theory as a long overdue alternative to the ptolemaic system, others were outraged at its revolutionary implications. copernicus revolutionized astronomy and his theory had a profound effect on philosophical and religious thought. on the academic grapevine he heard about the polish astronomer, copernicus, who had come up with a revolutionary new theory about a heliocentric universe. opposed publication of the theories of copernicus. in 1500, copernicus arrived in rome to give lessons in mechanics and mathematics and alexander gave him the job of professor of astronomy at the roman gymnasium. copernicus died in the same year his theories were published and is believed to have received a copy of \"de revolutionibus orbium coelestium\" on the last day of his life. in 1500 copernicus visited rome,  where he taught mathematics privately and made observations on a lunar eclipse which he used later for his lunar theory. in the 1543: \"on the revolutions of the celestial spheres\", copernicus put forward a view of the universe that provided a new basis for making the mathematical calculations needed to provide accurate information for calendar reform, to predict astronomical events like eclipses,  and to investigate the cosmos. copernican revolution but the conservative aristotelian establishment was hostile to his presentation of copernicus's new theory of the earth moving around a stationary sun, and they made it clear he was no longer welcome. the copernican system offered scientists a less clumsy method than that of ptolemy for calculating planetary movement but it did mean they had to make two major changes in their mind-set. scientific circles were more receptive to copernican theory and at the beginning of the seventeenth century the ptolemaic theory was first formally abandoned by kepler. during these years he became convinced of the truth of the copernicus' theory (that the planets revolve about the sun) but was deterred from going public - as shown in his letter of 4 april 1597 to kepler -   because of fear of the church (the italian philosopher, bruno had been arrested in 1592 and would in 1600 be burned at the stake for defending copernicus. at padua,  the leading scientific centre of the day, galileo continued his research on motion, and around 1604 proved theoretically that falling bodies obey what came to be known as the law of uniformly accelerated motion (a body speeds up or slows down uniformly with time). law.inventor.inventions chemistry.chemical_element.discoverer chemistry.chemical_element.discoverer base.argumentmaps.original_idea.innovator base.argumentmaps.original_idea.innovator base.argumentmaps.original_idea.innovator base.argumentmaps.original_idea.innovator base.argumentmaps.innovator.original_ideas base.argumentmaps.innovator.original_ideas base.argumentmaps.innovator.original_ideas base.argumentmaps.innovator.original_ideas base.argumentmaps.innovator.original_ideas astronomy.astronomer.astronomical_objects_discovered astronomy.astronomer.astronomical_objects_discovered astronomy.astronomer.astronomical_objects_discovered