chadwick james chadwick in 1897 rutherford took up the study of radioactivity, discovered in 1896 by french physicist becquerel. sedgwick museum of earth sciences 1988 cambridge film festival the resulting ionizing effect in the gas could be detected not only by an electrometer (a device that measured electric charge in a gas), but visually (as the alpha particles struck a zinc sulfide screen, they caused an identifiable flash, or  \"scintillation\"). pectus excavatum in 1900 rutherford and his associate soddy isolated the active part of radioactive thorium, which they named thorium-x, from the apparently-inert parent thorium. macclesfield scientist under rutherford's direction, english physicist patrick blackett in 1925 used the cloud chamber  apparatus, developed by scottish physicist c.t.r. wilson, to record the tracks of disintegrated nuclei. they charted how thorium-x gradually lost its radioactivity, while the original thorium regained its  activity, illustrating that thorium-x had its own distinctive half-life, much shorter than the half-life of thorium. he deduced that each contained a positively charged nucleus surrounded by electrons: only that kind of nucleus could repulse the positively charged alpha particles that happened to strike them and produce such enormous deflections. the cambridge student the final proof  that  alpha particles were helium ions came also in 1908, when rutherford trapped alpha particles in a glass tube and, by sparking the gas that was produced, showed from its spectrum that it was helium. he found that of the few particles that were deflected at wide angles, the amount of deflection depended on the metal n the reflector was, and that the amount of deflection decreased with lower atomic weight. cambridge university cricket club 1986 cambridge film festival department of chemical engineering and biotechnology, university of cambridge earlier, in 1900, bequerel had identified beta rays with cathode rays, which were shown to be electrons. education.education.student education.education.student education.education.student education.education.student education.education.student education.education.student education.education.student education.education.student education.education.student education.education.student education.education.student education.education.student people.person.children people.person.children education.academic.advisees education.academic.advisees education.academic.advisees education.academic.advisees education.academic.advisees education.academic.advisees