president of brazil brazil president the president is the people's lobbyist. i'm the only president you've got. president blake in america, anybody can be president. that's one of the risks you take. president of the united federation the president is the representative of the whole nation and he's the only lobbyist that all the one hundred and sixty million people in the country have. president of the presidency of religious affairs of turkey but even the president of the united states sometimes must have to stand naked. in america, the president reigns for four years, and journalism governs for ever and ever. we want a president who is as much like an american tourist as possible. someone with the same goofy grin, the same innocent intentions, the same naive trust; a president with no conception of foreign policy and no discernible connection to the u.s. government, whose nice guyism will narrow the gap between the u.s. and us until nobody can tell the difference. when i was a boy i was told that anybody could become president. now i'm beginning to believe it. appointed by (if position is appointed) some of the presidents were great and some of them weren't. i can say that, because i wasn't one of the great presidents, but i had a good time trying to be one, i can tell you that. a president is best judged by the enemies he makes when he has really hit his stride. under a presidential government, a nation has, except at the electing moment, no influence; it has not the ballot-box before it; its virtue is gone, and it must wait till its instant of despotism again returns. being a president is like riding a tiger. a man has to keep on riding or he is swallowed. no man will ever bring out of the presidency the reputation which carries him into it. people.person.nationality people.person.nationality people.person.nationality people.person.nationality people.person.nationality people.person.nationality people.person.nationality people.person.nationality people.person.nationality people.person.nationality people.person.nationality people.person.nationality people.person.nationality people.person.nationality government.government_position_held.office_holder government.government_position_held.office_holder government.government_position_held.office_holder government.government_position_held.office_holder government.government_position_held.office_holder government.government_position_held.office_holder