he found that the e/m for the cathode ray \"corpuscles\" (as thomson called them) was constant for any gas used in the experiment (whatever particle it was that made up the cathode rays occurred in all gases and was, therefore, a component of all of the different atoms of which those gases were made), and that this e/m ratio was over 1000 times larger than the ratio for the hydrogen ion, the lightest atom known. joseph john thomson taught julius robert oppenheimer joseph john thomson taught max born over the next few years thomson also developed a model of the atom that incorporated his discovery, sometimes referred to as the \"plum pudding\" atom, in which he proposed that the atom is a diffuse sphere of positive electrical charge in which discrete, negatively-charged electrons are embedded. joseph james thomson joseph john thomson worked under john william strutt he was succeeded by j. j. thomson as cavendish professor of experimental physics at cambridge in 1884. rutherford became the first research student to work under english physicist j.j. thomson at the cavendish laboratory. with the encouragement of laboratory chief, j.j. thomson, wilson began building an expansion chamber which would enable him to track the paths of atoms and electrons. in 1907 he went to cambridge university to study electrons under british physicist j.j. thomson. joseph john thomson joseph john thomson work related to eugen goldstein bohr hoped that the director of the laboratory, english physicist j.j. thomson, the discoverer of the electron, would appreciate his doctoral thesis, which he had painstakingly translated into english. this was confirmed during 1898 when thomson extended his research to other phenomena caused by electrical discharges, and proved that particles with the same value e/m were released from a negatively charged hot wire and from a negatively charged zinc plate illuminated by ultraviolet light. between 1906 and 1914 thomson entered his second and last great period of research, which he devoted to the study of \"canal rays\", streams of positively charged ions (first discovered by eugen goldstein), which thomson named \"positive rays.\" using magnetic and electric fields to deflect these rays, in 1912 he found that ions of neon gas are deflected by different amounts, indicating that they consist of a mixture of ions with different charge-to-mass ratios. in 1897 thomson found that cathode rays were deflected by electric fields, strong evidence that cathode rays were rapidly-moving charged particles. joseph john thomson work related to william crookes joseph john thomson work related to julius plucker joseph john thomson work related to james clerk maxwell in the course of this investigation, rayleigh discovered an anomaly unrelated to the original problem: nitrogen obtained through the chemical decomposition of ammonia was slightly less dense than nitrogen isolated from the atmosphere, by about one part in two hundred. chemistry.element_discoverer.discovered astronomy.extraterrestrial_location.on_celestial_object astronomy.extraterrestrial_location.on_celestial_object astronomy.extraterrestrial_location.on_celestial_object astronomy.extraterrestrial_location.type_of_planetographic_feature astronomy.extraterrestrial_location.type_of_planetographic_feature astronomy.extraterrestrial_location.type_of_planetographic_feature biology.organism.sex common.topic.subjects common.topic.subjects common.topic.subjects common.topic.subjects common.topic.subjects common.topic.subjects common.topic.subjects common.topic.subjects common.topic.subjects common.topic.subjects common.topic.subjects common.topic.subjects