it is  probable, but not certain, that gutenberg learned precision metalwork at the mainz mint, where as a youth he would have seen the complex processes involved in producing coinage, which involved the careful and accurate casting and stamping of gold, an understanding of metals and temperature, and a knowledge of the use of casting chambers, dies and presses. gutenberg changed history with his typeface and printing press. gutenberg based his invention on the method then used to mint coins, pouring molten metal into shapes and letting it set into coins called blanks, which were then reheated and punched with a design by a die, the pressure produced by huge screw presses. johannes gutenberg invention improved by willem blaeu johannes gutenberg invention user was aldus manutius he lost the suit, but the trial revealed that gutenberg was working on a new invention, and that some of the money advanced by dritzehen had been used to buy lead and other metals, a wooden press, and some printing materials. gutenberg aldus manutius used press of johannes gutenberg johannes gutenberg this work, now known as the gutenberg bible, is regarded as the first major book to come from a printing press. this suggests that by 1438 gutenberg and dritzehen had in all probability already invented a printing process using moveable type (separate pieces of wood or metal for each letter of the alphabet). gutenberg museum gutenberg developed a method by which his type could be produced individually by punching and engraving a steel character (i.e. letter shape) into a piece of copper to form a mold which he then filled with molten lead. meanwhile, fust had gained control of the type for the bible and for gutenberg's other masterpiece, an edition of the psalter, and most of gutenberg's printing equipment. project gutenberg gutenberg bible gutenberg was ruined. meanwhile, gutenberg had at last perfected his method of casting type sufficiently to set about printing his chosen text, the bible, probably starting work on this enormous project in 1452. the agreement with riffe and heilmann came to an end in 1443, by which time it is assumed (on the basis of the existence of a scrap of paper with eleven printed lines on each side, dated to 1442, which is the oldest example of european printing from moveable type) that gutenberg had had begun printing. the partnership agreement ended in 1443, and by 1450 gutenberg was back in mainz borrowing money from goldsmith and financier johann fust to set up a new press, with the printing tools and equipment acting as security. law.invention.inventor law.inventor.inventions base.argumentmaps.innovator.original_ideas people.person.gender freebase.type_profile.published freebase.type_profile.published type.type.expected_by type.type.expected_by people.person.place_of_birth people.person.parents people.person.parents base.biblioness.bibs_location.country type.type.domain people.person.nationality people.person.ethnicity common.image.appears_in_topic_gallery common.image.appears_in_topic_gallery people.person.education education.education.student type.property.expected_type