rutherford became the first research student to work under english physicist j.j. thomson at the cavendish laboratory. thomson was awarded the 1906 nobel prize in physics, and in 1908 he was knighted for his scientific achievements. joseph john thomson taught max born bohr hoped that the director of the laboratory, english physicist j.j. thomson, the discoverer of the electron, would appreciate his doctoral thesis, which he had painstakingly translated into english. scientist thomson did find some detractors, however, including the german physicist lenard , who for a period bitterly claimed priority over the discovery, and by a few scientists such as the german chemist ostwald , who until his death in 1932 refused to believe in the existence of either atoms or electrons. joseph john thomson taught julius robert oppenheimer in 1895 german physicist roentgendiscovered x-rays, and wilson immediately realized how useful x-rays could be in his studies on clouds. this work was later continued by one of thomson's students, francis aston (developer of the mass spectrograph), and others, and lead to the discovery of many other isotopes, vital to the understanding of the heavy radioactive elements, such as uranium and radium. joseph john thomson taught paul langevin in early 1896 thomson asked rutherford to help him study the effects of roentgen's x-rays on the discharge of electricity in gases. this was confirmed during 1898 when thomson extended his research to other phenomena caused by electrical discharges, and proved that particles with the same value e/m were released from a negatively charged hot wire and from a negatively charged zinc plate illuminated by ultraviolet light. rutherford's next major discovery came in 1909. he was succeeded by j. j. thomson as cavendish professor of experimental physics at cambridge in 1884. joseph john thomson work related to eugen goldstein joseph john thomson in 1907 he went to cambridge university to study electrons under british physicist j.j. thomson. joseph john thomson work related to william crookes the most famous and most outspoken anti-bohr, however, was german/american physicist einstein, who never accepted bohr's claim that quantum mechanics was the \"rational generalization of classical physics\", necessary for the understanding of atomic phenomena. joseph john thomson work related to johann wilhelm hittorf chemistry.element_discoverer.discovered education.education.student education.education.student education.education.student education.education.student education.education.student education.education.student education.education.student education.education.student education.education.student education.education.student education.education.student education.education.student education.education.student education.education.student education.education.student education.education.student education.education.student education.education.student education.education.student