hooke was perhaps the greatest experimental scientist of the seventeenth century. philosophical experiments and observations of robert hooke and other eminent virtuoso's in his time (1726) the first curator of experiments was the scientist hooke. francis hauksbee repeated experiments of robert hooke philosophical experiments and observations of the late eminent dr. robert hooke, s.r.s. and geom. prof gresh., and other eminent virtuoso's in his time in 1674, he met and befriended the experimental physicist hooke, who introduced him to flamsteed, the first astronomer royal. the posthumous works of robert hooke the diary of robert hooke 1672-1680 isaac newton criticized by robert hooke his groundbreaking studies of microscopic fossils led hooke to move towards a theory of evolution, when he realised that fossils represented the remains of once-living organisms that could be studied to understand the history of life. the level was later improved by huyghens and by the english scientist hooke. robert hooke involved in dispute about gottfried wilhelm leibniz during the early 1660s, hooke made important improvements to the compound microscope and in 1665, he published his great scientific work, 'micrographia' ('small drawings'). the diary of robert hooke m.a., m.d., f.r.s. 1672-1680 from 1654 until 1668, boyle, who set up what became a famous laboratory, took on hooke as his assistant, and mixed with many important intellectuals, including wilkins, wallis, wren, sprat, and the students sydenham and locke. astronomy.astronomical_observatory.discoveries law.invention.inventor law.invention.inventor law.invention.inventor law.inventor.inventions law.inventor.inventions law.inventor.inventions astronomy.astronomical_discovery.discovery_site astronomy.astronomical_discovery.discoverer biology.organism.sex education.academic.advisees medicine.disease_cause.diseases education.field_of_study.academics_in_this_field education.field_of_study.academics_in_this_field education.field_of_study.academics_in_this_field