over the next few years thomson also developed a model of the atom that incorporated his discovery, sometimes referred to as the \"plum pudding\" atom, in which he proposed that the atom is a diffuse sphere of positive electrical charge in which discrete, negatively-charged electrons are embedded. he found that the e/m for the cathode ray \"corpuscles\" (as thomson called them) was constant for any gas used in the experiment (whatever particle it was that made up the cathode rays occurred in all gases and was, therefore, a component of all of the different atoms of which those gases were made), and that this e/m ratio was over 1000 times larger than the ratio for the hydrogen ion, the lightest atom known. in 1907 he went to cambridge university to study electrons under british physicist j.j. thomson. thomson did find some detractors, however, including the german physicist lenard , who for a period bitterly claimed priority over the discovery, and by a few scientists such as the german chemist ostwald , who until his death in 1932 refused to believe in the existence of either atoms or electrons. with the encouragement of laboratory chief, j.j. thomson, wilson began building an expansion chamber which would enable him to track the paths of atoms and electrons. this was confirmed during 1898 when thomson extended his research to other phenomena caused by electrical discharges, and proved that particles with the same value e/m were released from a negatively charged hot wire and from a negatively charged zinc plate illuminated by ultraviolet light. joseph john thomson work related to albert einstein rutherford became the first research student to work under english physicist j.j. thomson at the cavendish laboratory. between 1906 and 1914 thomson entered his second and last great period of research, which he devoted to the study of \"canal rays\", streams of positively charged ions (first discovered by eugen goldstein), which thomson named \"positive rays.\" using magnetic and electric fields to deflect these rays, in 1912 he found that ions of neon gas are deflected by different amounts, indicating that they consist of a mixture of ions with different charge-to-mass ratios. thomson scattering bohr hoped that the director of the laboratory, english physicist j.j. thomson, the discoverer of the electron, would appreciate his doctoral thesis, which he had painstakingly translated into english. he was succeeded by j. j. thomson as cavendish professor of experimental physics at cambridge in 1884. thomson was then for several years largely occupied in building a comprehensive explanation of the conduction of electricity through gases, and in particular of the phenomenon of cathode rays - a subject that had become extremely popular among physicists during the preceding decade, largely as a result of the work of plucker , hittorf , crookes , goldstein and others. he helped revolutionize the knowledge of atomic structure by his discovery of the electron (1897). joseph james thomson chemistry.element_discoverer.discovered fictional_universe.fictional_character.gender fictional_universe.fictional_character.gender common.topic.subjects common.topic.subjects common.topic.subjects common.topic.subjects common.topic.subjects common.topic.subjects common.topic.subjects common.topic.subjects common.topic.subjects common.topic.subjects common.topic.subjects common.topic.subjects