columbus' career as a seaman began in 1476, when he sailed with a convoy of genoese ships from chios in the aegean for portugal, england and flanders. in 1478 or 1479, columbus married felipa moniz perestrello, a member of a prominent but impoverished portuguese family, with whom he soon afterwards settled on the island of porto santo, off madeira, where their only son, diego, was born in 1480. as a result, in the summer of 1485, columbus left portugal for spain, taking with him his five-year-old son, whom he placed in a franciscan friary at la rabida, near huelva. meanwhile, columbus had begun a long liaison with beatriz de enriques, who bore him a son, fernando, and had hispanicized his name, signing himself cristobal colon. origin theories of christopher columbus columbus in cuba. from the journal of columbus during his first voyage, 1492 his ship was sunk off cape st. vincent in southwest portugal, and from this point columbus based himself in lisbon, where his brother bartholomew was working as a cartographer. during these years of waiting, bartholomew columbus is believed to have visited england in an abortive attempt to interest henry vii in his brother's proposed enterprise, and then settled in france, intending to approach the french monarch. in january 1492, columbus was intending to join his brother when he heard that the intensive lobbying of the spanish monarchs by the spanish treasurer, luis de santángel, the franciscan friars of la rábida, and an influential group of genoese and florentine investors, had been successful, and that he had been summoned back to court at santa fe, near granada. columbus went to the portuguese for support when he proposed his voyage to discover a better route to india by sailing to the west. location.location.people_born_here location.location.people_born_here location.location.people_born_here location.location.people_born_here location.location.people_born_here location.location.people_born_here location.location.people_born_here location.location.people_born_here location.location.people_born_here location.location.people_born_here